ITEM
      1A.
RISK FACTORS
Material factors that may adversely affect our business and operations are summarized below. 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS’ VALUE AND INCOME FLUCTUATE DUE TO VARIOUS FACTORS.
The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business.  These conditions may also limit our revenues and available cash.
The factors that affect the value of our real estate include, among other things:
national, regional and local economic conditions;
competition from other available space;
local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area;
how well we manage our properties;
changes in market rental rates; 
the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;
whether we are able to pass some or all of any increased operating costs through to tenants;
changes in real estate taxes and other expenses;   
whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive;
the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;
availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all;
fluctuations in interest rates;
our ability to secure adequate insurance;
changes in taxation or zoning laws; 
government regulation; 
consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States;
potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; and 
general competitive factors. 
The rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors.  If our rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and distribute to our stockholders.  In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decline when the related rents decline.
Capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities.
There are many factors that can affect the value of our investments in debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and economy.  In the second half of 2007 the residential mortgage and capital markets began showing signs of stress, primarily in the form of escalating default rates on sub-prime mortgages, declining home values and increasing inventory nationwide.  In 2008, the “credit crisis” spread to the broader commercial credit and financial markets resulting in illiquidity and volatility in the bond and equity markets.  We are currently in an economic recession which has negatively affected all businesses including ours.  These conditions have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels.  As a result, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads.
Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, and may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants.  If these market conditions continue, they may limit our ability and the ability of our tenants, to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in materially adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities.
We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from our tenants, who may not be able to pay.
Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms.  In addition, because a majority of our income is derived from renting real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to our stockholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain our level of occupancy on favorable terms.  If a tenant does not pay its rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and might incur substantial legal and other costs.
7
Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues, net income and available cash.
From time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future.  If a major tenant declares bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, the rental property at which it leases space may have lower revenues and operational difficulties.  In the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to have difficulty leasing the remainder of the affected property.  Our leases generally do not contain restrictions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of our tenants.  As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in a lower level of net income and funds available for the payment of our indebtedness or distribution to our stockholders.  For example, Circuit City, a tenant who leases space at our Rego Park I location aggregating 50,000 square feet, approximately
$2,600,000 of annual property rental income, recently announced that it is liquidating its assets pursuant to Bankruptcy Court approval.  As a result, we wrote-off approximately $4,909,000 of unamortized costs at December 31, 2008, including tenant improvements and receivables arising from the straight-lining of rent.
Some of our tenants represent a significant portion of our revenues.  Loss of these tenant relationships or deterioration in the tenants’ credit quality could adversely affect results.
Bloomberg L.P. accounted for 31%, 32% and 34% of our consolidated revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  If we fail to maintain a relationship with Bloomberg L.P. or any of our significant tenants or fail to perform our obligations under agreements with these tenants, or if any of these tenants fail or become unable to perform their obligations under the agreements, we expect that any one or more of these events would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Although neither inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents.  Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants’ sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable.  Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income.
Real estate is a competitive business.
We operate in a highly competitive environment.  All of our properties are located in the greater New York City metropolitan area.  We compete with a large number of real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments.  Principal factors of competition are rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and breadth and quality of services provided.  Our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of national and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.  
8
We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws.
Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety.  Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property.  The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination.  These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused such release.  The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or
lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.  Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air.  The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws.  We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals.  We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks
or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure at or from our properties.
In July 2006, we discovered an oil spill at our Kings Plaza Regional Shopping Center, notified the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (“NYSDEC”) and developed a remediation plan. The NYSDEC has approved a portion of the remediation plan and clean up is ongoing.  The estimated costs associated with the clean up aggregate approximately $2,500,000.  We paid $500,000 of this amount and the remainder is covered under our insurance policy.     
Each of our properties has been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times.  Except as referenced below, the environmental assessments did not, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, reveal any environmental condition material to our business.  However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us.
Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.
We carry commercial liability with limits of $200,000,000 per location and all risk property insurance for (i) fire, (ii) flood, (iii) rental loss, (iv) extended coverage, and (v) “acts of terrorism,” as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (“TRIPRA”) of 2007, with respect to our assets, with limits of $1.7 billion per occurrence, including terrorist acts, as defined, for all of our properties.  To the extent that we incur losses in excess of our insurance coverage, these losses would be borne by us and could be material.
Our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance.  Although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future.  Further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain, it could adversely affect our ability to finance and/or refinance our properties.
Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs.
The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, be made accessible to disabled persons.  Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants.  If, under the Americans with Disabilities Act, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.
Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements.  If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards.  We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations.
9
OUR INVESTMENTS ARE CONCENTRATED IN THE GREATER NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA.  CIRCUMSTANCES AFFECTING THIS AREA GENERALLY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.
All of our properties are in the greater New York City metropolitan area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent in that area.
During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, all of our revenues came from properties located in the greater New York City metropolitan area.  Like other real estate markets, the real estate market in this area has experienced economic downturns, and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this market in either the short or long term.  Continued declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate market in this area could further hurt the value of our properties and our financial performance.  The factors affecting economic conditions in this region include: 
financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries;
business layoffs or downsizing;
industry slowdowns;
relocations of businesses;
changing demographics;
increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places;
infrastructure quality; and
any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate.
It is impossible for us to assess with certainty the future effects of the current adverse trends in the economic and investment climates of the greater New York City metropolitan region, and more generally of the United States, on the real estate market in this area.  If these conditions persist, or if there is any further local, national or global economic downturn, our businesses and future profitability may be adversely affected.
Terrorist attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow.
All of our properties are located in the greater New York City metropolitan area.  In the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in this area may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in this area.  This would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these markets, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms.  As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could decline materially.
We are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment.
A substantial proportion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate market.  This means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies.  These factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers.  
WE MAY ACQUIRE OR SELL ADDITIONAL ASSETS OR DEVELOP ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES.  OUR FAILURE OR INABILITY TO CONSUMMATE THESE TRANSACTIONS OR MANAGE THE RESULTS OF THESE TRANSACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS.
We may acquire or develop properties and this may create risks.
Although our stated business strategy is not to engage in acquisitions, we may acquire or develop properties when we believe that an acquisition or development project is otherwise consistent with our business strategy.  We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget.  In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs.  When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover their costs of acquisition or development and operations.  Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention.  Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market
knowledge may result in poorer than anticipated performance.  We may abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated.  
10
It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly.
Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly.  Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.  Moreover, our ability to buy, sell, or finance real estate assets may be adversely affected during periods of uncertainty or unfavorable conditions in the credit markets as we, or potential buyers of our assets, may experience difficulty in obtaining financing. 
OUR ORGANIZATIONAL AND FINANCIAL STRUCTURE GIVES RISE TO OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS.
We depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  The creditors of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us.
Substantially all of our properties and assets are held through subsidiaries.  We depend on cash distributions and dividends from our subsidiaries for substantially all of our cash flow.  The creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations to them when due, and payable before that subsidiary may make distributions or dividends to us.  Thus, our ability to pay dividends, if any, to our security holders depends on our subsidiaries’ ability to first satisfy their obligations to their creditors and our ability to satisfy our obligations, if any, to our creditors.
In addition, our participation in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency of the subsidiary, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, of the applicable direct or indirect subsidiaries are satisfied.
Our existing financing documents contain covenants and restrictions that may restrict our operational and financial flexibility.
At December 31, 2008, substantially all of the individual properties we own were encumbered by mortgages.  These mortgages contain covenants that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness on these properties, provide for lender approval of tenants’ leases in certain circumstances, and provide for yield maintenance or defeasance premiums to prepay them.  These mortgages may significantly restrict our operational and financial flexibility.  In addition, if we were to fail to perform our obligations under existing indebtedness or become insolvent or were liquidated, secured creditors would be entitled to payment in full from the proceeds of the sale of the pledged assets prior to any proceeds being paid to other creditors or to any holders of our securities.  In such an event, it is possible that we would have insufficient assets remaining to make payments to other creditors
or to any holders of our securities.  
We
        have indebtedness, and this indebtedness, and the cost
        to service it, may increase and debt refinancing may
        not be available on acceptable terms.
As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1,221,255,000 in total debt outstanding.  Our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was 61.3% at December 31, 2008.  “Enterprise value” means the market equity value of our common stock, plus debt, less cash and cash equivalents at such date.  In addition, we have significant debt service obligations.  For the year ended December 31, 2008, our scheduled cash payments for principal and interest were $82,947,000.  In the future, we may incur additional debt, and thus increase the ratio of total debt to total enterprise value.  If our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of default that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, the cost of refinancing our existing debt and any new debt or market rate security or
instrument may increase.  Furthermore, in the current “credit crisis” environment, we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.  
We have issued outstanding and exercisable stock appreciation rights.  The exercise of these stock appreciation rights may impact our liquidity.
As of December 31, 2008, 300,000 stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) were outstanding and exercisable.  These SARs have an adjusted exercise price of $63.38, and are scheduled to expire on March 4, 2009.  Since the SARs agreements require that they be settled in cash, we would have paid $57,458,000 to the holders of these SARs had they exercised their SARs on December 31, 2008.  Any change in our stock price from the closing price of $254.90 at December 31, 2008 would increase or decrease the amount we would have to pay upon exercise.
11
We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT, and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates.
Although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we might fail to remain qualified.  Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations.  Qualification as a REIT also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control.  In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.
In order to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required, among other conditions, to distribute as dividends to our stockholders, at least 90% of annual REIT taxable income.  As of December 31, 2008, we had reported net operating loss carryovers (“NOLs”) of $29,211,000, which generally would be available to offset the amount of REIT taxable income that we otherwise would be required to distribute.  However, the NOLs reported on the tax returns are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service and are subject to adjustment as a result of future audits.  In addition, under Section 382 of the Code, the ability to use our NOLs could be limited if, generally, there are significant changes in the ownership of our outstanding stock.  Since our reorganization as a REIT commencing in 1995, we have not paid regular dividends and do not
believe that we will be required to, and may not, pay regular dividends until the NOLs have been fully utilized.
We face possible adverse changes in tax laws.
From time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability.  The shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes.  If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income.  These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends.
Loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common stock.
We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth, our Chief Executive Officer, and Michael D. Fascitelli, our President. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common stock.
12
ALEXANDER’S CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND APPLICABLE LAW MAY HINDER ANY ATTEMPT TO ACQUIRE US.
Provisions in Alexander’s certificate of incorporation and by laws, as well as provisions of the Code and Delaware corporate law, may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or a tender offer, even if such action might be beneficial to stockholders, and limit the stockholders’ opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares of common stock over then prevailing market prices.
Primarily to facilitate maintenance of its qualification as a REIT, Alexander’s certificate of incorporation generally prohibits ownership, directly, indirectly or beneficially, by any single stockholder of more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of preferred stock of any class or 4.9% of outstanding common stock of any class.  The Board of Directors may waive or modify these ownership limits with respect to one or more persons if it is satisfied that ownership in excess of these limits will not jeopardize Alexander’s status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  In addition, the Board of Directors has, subject to certain conditions and limitations, exempted Vornado and certain of its affiliates from these ownership limitations.  Stocks owned in violation of these ownership limits will be subject to the loss of rights and other restrictions.  These ownership limits may
have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control.
Alexander’s Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors.  Directors of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms.  Staggered terms of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, even though changes in management or a change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders.
In addition, Alexander’s charter documents authorize the Board of Directors to:
cause Alexander’s to issue additional authorized but unissued common stock or preferred stock;
classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock;
set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that Alexander’s issues; and
increase, without stockholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that Alexander’s may issue.
The Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock with terms that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Alexander’s or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders, although the Board of Directors does not, at present, intend to establish a series of preferred stock of this kind.  Alexander’s charter documents contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.
In addition, Vornado and Interstate (the three general partners of which are both trustees of Vornado and Directors of Alexander’s) together beneficially own approximately 59.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock.  This degree of ownership may also reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of the Company.
We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our stockholders.
Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other assets, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Directors.  Accordingly, our stockholders do not control these policies.
13
OUR OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS MAY GIVE RISE TO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
Steven Roth, Vornado and Interstate may exercise substantial influence over us.  They and some of our other directors and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us.
At December 31, 2008, Interstate and its partners owned approximately 8.8% of the common shares of beneficial interest of Vornado and approximately 27.0% of our outstanding common stock.  Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the partners of Interstate.  Mr. Roth is the Chairman of our Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado and the Managing General Partner of Interstate.  Mr. Wight and Mr. Mandelbaum are both trustees of Vornado and members of our Board of Directors.  In addition, Vornado manages and leases the real estate assets of Interstate.
At December 31, 2008, Vornado owned 32.5% of our outstanding common stock, in addition to the 27.0% owned by Interstate and its partners.  In addition to the relationships described in the immediately preceding paragraph, Michael D. Fascitelli, the President and a trustee of Vornado, is our President and a member of our Board of Directors. Richard West is a trustee of Vornado and a member of our Board of Directors.  In addition, Joseph Macnow, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, holds the same positions with Vornado.
Because of their overlapping interests, Vornado, Mr. Roth, Interstate and the other individuals noted in the preceding paragraphs may have substantial influence over Alexander’s, and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Alexander’s stockholders for approval.  In addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among Vornado, Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate and other security holders.  Vornado, Mr. Roth and Interstate may, in the future, engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as, which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in
which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, by us, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions, and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities.
There may be conflicts of interest between Vornado, its affiliates and us.
Vornado manages, develops and leases our properties under agreements that have one-year terms expiring in March of each year, which are automatically renewable.  Because we share common senior management with Vornado and because five of the trustees of Vornado also constitute the majority of our directors, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.
For a description of Interstate’s ownership of Vornado and Alexander’s, see “Steven Roth, Vornado and Interstate may exercise substantial influence over us.  They and some of our other directors and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us.” above.
14
THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF ALEXANDER’S COMMON STOCK AND THE MARKET FOR THOSE SHARES GIVE RISE TO VARIOUS RISKS.
The price of our common shares has recently been volatile and may fluctuate.
The trading price of our common shares has recently been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control.  In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies.  These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common shares.  Among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are:
our financial condition and performance;
the financial conditions of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;
actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;
the reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities;
the effect of the “credit crisis” on the broader commercial credit and financial markets and the resulting illiquidity and volatility in the equity and bond markets;
changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other real estate investment trusts;
failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;
speculation in the press or investment community;
strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;
the extent of institutional interest in us;
the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors;
fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;
general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for real estate investment trusts and other real estate related companies; 
domestic
                and international economic factors unrelated
            to our performance; and
all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this document.
A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders.
Alexander’s has available for issuance, shares of its common stock and outstanding and exercisable options to purchase its common stock.  The issuance of this stock or the exercise of these options could decrease the market price of the shares of common stock currently outstanding.
As of December 31, 2008, we had authorized but unissued 4,826,550 shares of common stock, par value of $1.00 per share and 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.  In addition, as of December 31, 2008, 14,260 options were outstanding and exercisable at a weighted-average exercise price of $63.38 and as of December 31, 2007, 300,000 SARs were outstanding and exercisable at an adjusted exercise price of $63.38.  Additionally, 895,000 shares are available for future grant under the terms of our 2006 Omnibus Stock Plan. These awards may be granted in the form of options, restricted stock, SARs or other equity-based interests, and if granted, would reduce that number of shares available for future grant, provided however that an award that may be settled only in cash, would not reduce the number of shares available under the plan.  We cannot predict the impact that
future issuances of common or preferred stock or any exercise of outstanding options or grants of additional equity-based interests would have on the market price of our common stock.
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
15
