ITEM 1a.  risk factors
Material factors
that may adversely affect our business and operations are summarized below.

REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS’ VALUE AND
INCOME FLUCTUATE DUE TO VARIOUS FACTORS.
The value of
real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the
real estate business.  These conditions may also adversely impact our
revenues and cash flows.
The factors that
affect the value of our real estate include, among other things:
national, regional and local economic
conditions;
competition from other available space;
local conditions such as an oversupply of space or
a reduction in demand for real estate in the area;
how
well we manage our properties;
changes in market rental rates; 
the
timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;
whether we are able to pass all or portions of any
increases in operating costs through to tenants;
changes in real estate taxes and other
expenses;   
whether tenants and users such as customers and
shoppers consider a property attractive;
the
financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies
or defaults;
availability of financing on acceptable terms or at
all;
fluctuations in interest rates;
our
ability to obtain adequate insurance;
changes in zoning laws and taxation;
government regulation; 
consequences of any armed conflict involving, or
terrorist attack against, the United States;
potential liability under environmental or other
laws or regulations; 
natural disasters; 
general competitive factors; and
climate changes.
The rents we
receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of
adverse changes in any of these factors.  If our rental revenues and/or
occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available
to pay our indebtedness and for distribution to our stockholders.  In
addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate
taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents
decline.
Capital markets
and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and
results of operations and the value of our debt and equity
securities.
There are many
factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including
the state of the capital markets and economy which have recently negatively
affected substantially all businesses, including ours.  Demand for office
and retail space may decline nationwide as it did in 2008 and 2009, due to
bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting.  The cost and
availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and
wider credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition,
and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants.  Our inability or
the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access
the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially effect our financial
condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity
securities.
Real estate is a competitive
business.
We operate in a
highly competitive environment.  All of our properties are located in the
greater New York City metropolitan area.  We compete with a large number of
real estate property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to
accept lower returns on their investments.  Principal factors of
competition are rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the
property and breadth and quality of services provided.  Our success depends
upon, among other factors, trends of national and local economies, the financial
condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and
customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs,
taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends. 

7
We depend on leasing space to tenants on
economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be
able to pay.
Our financial
results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on
economically favorable terms.  In addition, because a majority of our
income is derived from renting real property, our income, funds available to pay
indebtedness and funds available for distribution to stockholders will decrease
if certain of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to
maintain our level of occupancy on favorable terms.  If a tenant does not
pay its rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without
delays and might incur substantial legal and other costs.  During periods
of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that
cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may
decrease our revenues, net income and available cash.
From time to
time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may
declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future.  In the case of our
shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us
to have difficulty leasing the remainder of the affected property.  Our
leases generally do not contain restrictions designed to ensure the
creditworthiness of our tenants.  As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency
of a major tenant could result in a lower level of net income and funds
available for the payment of our indebtedness or distribution to
stockholders.  
Some of our tenants represent a
significant portion of our revenues.  Loss of these tenant relationships or
deterioration in the tenants’ credit quality could adversely affect our
financial condition or results of operation.
Bloomberg
accounted for $83,137,000, $77,988,000 and $66,333,000, or 34%, 35% and 31% of
our consolidated revenues in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  No other tenant accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated revenues in any of the last three years.  If we were to lose
Bloomberg as a tenant, or if Bloomberg were to fail or become unable to perform
its obligations under its lease, it would adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.
Inflation or
deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.
Although neither
inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent
past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our
mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these
costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents.  Inflation could also
have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants’
sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable.  Conversely,
deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of
income.
Our business and operations would suffer in the
event of system failures
Despite system redundancy, the implementation of
security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal
information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any
number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy
blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication
failures.  Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our
operations could result in a material disruption to our business.  We may
also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such
disruptions.
8
We may incur costs to comply with
environmental laws.
Our operations
and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and
regulations concerning the protection of the environment including air and water
quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety.  Under some
environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may
be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released
at a property.  The owner or operator may also be held liable to a
governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries
and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of
the contamination.  These laws often impose liability without regard to
whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused
such release.  The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate
contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow
using the real estate as collateral.  Other laws and regulations govern
indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or
removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition,
renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos
fibers in the air.  The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain
electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground
storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws.  We are also
subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological
contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain
levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and
symptoms in susceptible individuals.  We could incur fines for
environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action
with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims
arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure at or from our
properties.
In July 2006, we
discovered an oil spill at our Kings Plaza Regional Shopping Center.  We
have notified the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
(“NYSDEC”) about the spill and have developed a remediation plan. The NYSDEC has
approved a portion of the remediation plan and clean up is ongoing.  The
estimated costs associated with the clean up will aggregate approximately
$2,500,000.  We have paid $500,000 of such amount and the remainder is
covered under our insurance policy.
Each of our
properties has been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at
various times.  Except as referenced above, the environmental assessments
did not, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, reveal any
environmental condition material to our business.  However, identification
of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in
the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human
exposure to the contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements
could result in significant costs to us.
Some of our potential losses may not be
covered by insurance.
We maintain
general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and
all-risk property and rental value insurance coverage with limits of $1.7
billion per occurrence, including coverage for terrorist acts, with sub-limits
for certain perils such as floods and earthquakes on each of our
properties.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain
similar levels of insurance coverage in the future in amounts and on terms that
are commercially reasonable.  We are responsible for deductibles and losses
in excess of our insurance coverage, which could be material.
Our mortgage
loans are non-recourse to us, except for $75,000,000 of the $320,000,000
mortgage on our 731 Lexington Avenue property, in the event of a substantial
casualty, as defined.  Our mortgage loans contain customary covenants
requiring us to maintain insurance.  If lenders insist on greater coverage
than we are able to obtain, it could adversely affect our ability to finance our
properties.
Compliance or failure to comply with the
Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements
could result in substantial costs.
The Americans
with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) generally requires that public buildings,
including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access
and use by disabled persons.  Noncompliance could result in the imposition
of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private
litigants.  If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial
alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including
the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for
distribution to stockholders.
Our properties
are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as
state and local fire and life safety requirements.  If we fail to comply
with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards.  We
do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with
future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that
will affect our cash flow and results of operations.
9
OUR INVESTMENTS ARE CONCENTRATED IN THE
GREATER NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA. CIRCUMSTANCES AFFECTING THIS AREA
GENERALLY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.
All of our properties are in the greater
New York City metropolitan area and are affected by the economic cycles and
risks inherent in that area.
All of our
revenues come from properties located in the greater New York City metropolitan
area.  Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot
predict how economic conditions will impact this market in either the short or
long term.  Declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate market
in this area could hurt our financial performance and the value of our
properties.  The factors affecting economic conditions in this area
include: 
financial performance and productivity of the
publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real
estate industries;
unemployment levels;
business layoffs or downsizing;
industry slowdowns;
relocations of businesses;
changing demographics;
increased telecommuting and use of alternative work
places;
infrastructure quality; and
any
oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate.
It is impossible
for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment
climates of the greater New York City metropolitan region, and more generally of
the United States, on the real estate market in this area.  Local, national
or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and
profitability.
Terrorist attacks, such as those of
September 11, 2001 in New York City, may adversely affect the value of our
properties and our ability to generate cash flow.
All of our
properties are located in the greater New York City metropolitan area.  In
the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in this area may choose to relocate
their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States
that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity and fewer
customers may choose to patronize businesses in this area.  This would
trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these markets, which could
increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on
less favorable terms.  As a result, the value of our properties and the
level of our revenues could decline materially.
We are subject
to risks that affect the general retail environment.
A substantial
portion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate
market.  This means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail
environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer
confidence, unemployment rates, the threat of terrorism and increasing
competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog
companies.  These factors could adversely affect the financial condition of
our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our
shopping centers.  
We face risks associated with our tenants being
designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. 

Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws,
the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the
Treasury (“OFAC”) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who
are otherwise blocked or banned (“Prohibited Persons”) from conducting business
or engaging in transactions in the United States.  Our leases, loans and
other agreements may require us to comply with OFAC requirements.  If a
tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the OFAC list
we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement.  Any such
termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our
financial results and cash flows.
10
WE MAY ACQUIRE OR SELL ASSETS OR DEVELOP
PROPERTIES.  OUR FAILURE OR INABILITY TO CONSUMMATE THESE TRANSACTIONS OR
MANAGE THESE TRANSACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
RESULTS.
We may acquire or develop properties and
this may create risks.
Although our
stated business strategy is not to engage in acquisitions, we may acquire or
develop properties when we believe that an acquisition or development project is
otherwise consistent with our business strategy.  We may not, however,
succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on
time or within budget.  In addition, we may face competition in pursuing
acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. 
When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly
developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover costs of
acquisition or development and operations.  Difficulties in integrating
acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s
attention.  Acquisitions or developments in new markets or types of
properties where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in
weaker than anticipated performance.  We may abandon acquisition or
development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to
recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter
not consummated.  
It may be difficult to buy and sell real
estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility.
Real estate
investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. 
Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in
response to changes in economic or other conditions.  Moreover, our ability
to buy, sell, or finance real estate assets may be adversely affected during
periods of uncertainty or unfavorable conditions in the credit markets as we, or
potential buyers of our assets, may experience difficulty in obtaining
financing. 
OUR ORGANIZATIONAL AND FINANCIAL
STRUCTURE GIVES RISE TO OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS.
We depend on dividends and distributions
from our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  The creditors of these
subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before
the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to
us.
Substantially
all of our properties and assets are held through subsidiaries.  We depend
on cash distributions and dividends from our subsidiaries for substantially all
of our cash flow.  The creditors of each of our direct and indirect
subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations to them
when due and payable before that subsidiary may make distributions or dividends
to us.  Thus, our ability to pay dividends, if any, to our security holders
depends on our subsidiaries’ ability to first satisfy their obligations to their
creditors and our ability to satisfy our obligations, if any, to our
creditors.
In addition, our
participation in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect
subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency of the
subsidiary, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade
creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, of the applicable direct or
indirect subsidiaries are satisfied.
Our existing financing documents contain
covenants and restrictions that may restrict our operational and financial
flexibility.
At December 31,
2010, substantially all of the individual properties we own were encumbered by
mortgages.  These mortgages contain covenants that limit our ability to
incur additional indebtedness on these properties, provide for lender approval
of tenants’ leases in certain circumstances, and provide for yield maintenance
or defeasance premiums to prepay them.  These mortgages may significantly
restrict our operational and financial flexibility.  In addition, if we
were to fail to perform our obligations under existing indebtedness or become
insolvent or were liquidated, secured creditors would be entitled to payment in
full from the proceeds of the sale of the pledged assets prior to any proceeds
being paid to other creditors or to any holders of our securities.  In such
an event, it is possible that we would have insufficient assets remaining to
make payments to other creditors or to any holders of our securities. 

11
We have indebtedness, and this
indebtedness and the cost to service it, may increase and debt refinancing may
not be available on acceptable terms.
As of December
31, 2010, total debt outstanding was $1,246,411,000.  Our ratio of total
debt to total enterprise value was 42.2% at December 31, 2010.  “Enterprise
value” means the market equity value of our common stock, plus debt, less cash
and cash equivalents at such date.  In addition, we have significant debt
service obligations.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, our scheduled
cash payments for principal and interest were $92,770,000.  In the future,
we may incur additional debt, and thus increase the ratio of total debt to total
enterprise value.  If our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an
increased risk of default which could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.  In addition, in a rising interest rate
environment, the cost of refinancing our existing debt and any new debt or
market rate security or instrument may increase.  
Continued uncertainty in the equity and credit
markets may negatively impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable
terms or at all, which may negatively affect our ability to refinance our
debt
We may issue stock appreciations rights
and other forms of stock-based compensation, and the cash required to settle
these awards may impact our liquidity. 
In the past, we
have issued stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) and other forms of stock-based
compensation.  As of December 31, 2010, no SARs or other forms of
stock-based compensation were outstanding.  We may in the future issue SARs
and other forms of stock-based compensation as a form of executive compensation,
and the cash required to settle these awards may impact our
liquidity.
We might fail to qualify or remain
qualified as a REIT, and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate
rates.
Although we
believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to
qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we might fail to remain
qualified.  Our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is
governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
(the “Code”) for which there are only limited judicial or administrative
interpretations.  Our qualification as a REIT also depends on various facts
and circumstances that are not entirely within our control.  In addition,
legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions
might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for
qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as
a REIT.
If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to
maintain our qualification as a REIT and do not qualify under statutory relief
provisions, we could not deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our
taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at
regular corporate rates. The federal income tax payable would include any
applicable alternative minimum tax. If we had to pay federal income tax, the
amount of money available to distribute to stockholders and pay our indebtedness
would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be
required to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, we would also be
disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief
under the relevant statutory provisions. Although we currently intend to operate
in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market,
legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the REIT election or
fail to qualify as a REIT.
We face possible adverse changes in tax
laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability.
From time to
time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may
result in an increase in our tax liability.  The shortfall in tax revenues
for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the
frequency and size of such changes.  If such changes occur, we may be
required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income.  These increased
tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends.
Loss of our key personnel could harm our
operations and adversely affect the value of our common
stock.
We are dependent
on the efforts of Steven Roth, our Chief Executive Officer, and Michael D.
Fascitelli, our President. Although we believe that we could find replacements
for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations
and adversely affect the value of our common stock.
12
ALEXANDER’S CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND
APPLICABLE LAW MAY HINDER ANY ATTEMPT TO ACQUIRE US.
Provisions in
Alexander’s certificate of incorporation and by laws, as well as provisions of
the Code and Delaware corporate law, may delay or prevent a change in control of
the Company or a tender offer, even if such action might be beneficial to
stockholders, and limit the stockholders’ opportunity to receive a potential
premium for their shares of common stock over then prevailing market
prices.
Primarily to
facilitate maintenance of its qualification as a REIT, Alexander’s certificate
of incorporation generally prohibits ownership, directly, indirectly or
beneficially, by any single stockholder of more than 9.9% of the outstanding
shares of preferred stock of any class or 4.9% of outstanding common stock of
any class.  The Board of Directors may waive or modify these ownership
limits with respect to one or more persons if it is satisfied that ownership in
excess of these limits will not jeopardize Alexander’s status as a REIT for
federal income tax purposes.  In addition, the Board of Directors has,
subject to certain conditions and limitations, exempted Vornado and certain of
its affiliates from these ownership limitations.  Stock owned in violation
of these ownership limits will be subject to the loss of rights and other
restrictions.  These ownership limits may have the effect of inhibiting or
impeding a change in control.
Alexander’s
Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors.  Directors
of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms.  Staggered terms
of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or
management, even though changes in management or a change in control might be in
the best interest of our stockholders.
In addition,
Alexander’s charter documents authorize the Board of Directors to:
cause Alexander’s to issue additional authorized
but unissued common stock or preferred stock;
classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any
unissued preferred stock;
set
the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock
that Alexander’s issues; and
increase, without stockholder approval, the number
of shares of beneficial interest that Alexander’s may issue.
The Board of
Directors could establish a series of preferred stock with terms that could
delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Alexander’s or other transaction
that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our
stockholders, although the Board of Directors does not, at present, intend to
establish a series of preferred stock of this kind.  Alexander’s charter
documents contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in
control of the Company or other transaction that might involve a premium price
or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.
In addition,
Vornado and Interstate (the three general partners of which are both trustees of
Vornado and Directors of Alexander’s) together beneficially own approximately
59.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock.  This degree of ownership
is likely to reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change
control of the Company by a third party.
We may change our policies without
obtaining the approval of our stockholders.
Our operating
and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of
real estate or other assets, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization
and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Directors. 
Accordingly, our stockholders do not control these policies.
13
OUR OWNERSHIP
STRUCTURE AND RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS MAY GIVE RISE TO CONFLICTS OF
INTEREST.
Steven Roth, Vornado and Interstate may
exercise substantial influence over us.  They and some of our other
directors and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may
compete with us.
At December 31,
2010, Interstate and its partners owned approximately 7.0% of the common shares
of beneficial interest of Vornado and approximately 27.2% of our outstanding
common stock.  Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are
the partners of Interstate.  Mr. Roth is the Chairman of our Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of
Vornado and the Managing General Partner of Interstate.  Mr. Wight and
Mr. Mandelbaum are both trustees of Vornado and members of our Board of
Directors.  In addition, Vornado manages and leases the real estate assets
of Interstate.
At December 31,
2010, Vornado owned 32.4% of our outstanding common stock, in addition to the
27.2% owned by Interstate and its partners.  In addition to the
relationships described in the immediately preceding paragraph, Michael D.
Fascitelli, President and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado, is our President
and a member of our Board of Directors. Dr. Richard West is a trustee of Vornado
and a member of our Board of Directors.  Joseph Macnow, our Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, holds the same position with
Vornado.
Because of their
overlapping interests, Vornado, Mr. Roth, Interstate and the other
individuals noted in the preceding paragraphs may have substantial influence
over Alexander’s, and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Alexander’s
stockholders for approval.  In addition, certain decisions concerning our
operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among
Vornado, Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate and other
security holders.  Vornado, Mr. Roth and Interstate may, in the
future, engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which
may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such
as, which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential
business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of
properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments,
potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be
conducted, by us, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate
transactions such as acquisitions, and other strategic decisions affecting the
future of these entities.
There may be conflicts of interest
between Vornado, its affiliates and us.
Vornado manages,
develops and leases our properties under agreements that have one-year terms
expiring in March of each year, which are automatically renewable.  Because
we share common senior management with Vornado and because five of the trustees
of Vornado also constitute the majority of our directors, the terms of the
foregoing agreements and any future agreements may not be comparable to those we
could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.
For a
description of Interstate’s ownership of Vornado and Alexander’s, see “Steven
Roth, Vornado and Interstate may exercise substantial influence over us. 
They and some of our other directors and officers have interests or positions in
other entities that may compete with us.” above.
14
THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF ALEXANDER’S
COMMON STOCK AND THE MARKET FOR THOSE SHARES GIVE RISE TO VARIOUS
RISKS.
The price of our common shares has been
volatile and may fluctuate.
The trading price of our common shares
has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number
of factors, many of which are outside of our control.  In addition, the
stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes
that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies.  These broad
market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the
market price of our common shares.  Among the factors that could affect the
price of our common shares are:
our financial condition and
performance;
the financial condition of our tenants,
including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;
actual or anticipated quarterly
fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;
the reputation of REITs and real estate
investments generally and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in
comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real
estate companies, and fixed income securities;
uncertainly and volatility in the equity
and credit markets;
changes in revenue or earnings estimates
or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or
actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of
other real estate investment trusts;
failure to meet analysts’ revenue or
earnings estimates;
speculation in the press or investment
community;
strategic actions by us or our
competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;
the extent of institutional investor
interest in us;
the extent of short-selling of our
common shares and the shares of our competitors;
fluctuations in the stock price and
operating results of our competitors;
general financial and economic market
conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for
real estate investment trusts and other real estate related companies;

domestic and international economic
factors unrelated to our performance; and
all other risk factors addressed
elsewhere in this document.
A significant decline in our stock price
could result in substantial losses for stockholders.
Alexander’s has additional shares of its
common stock available for future issuance, which could decrease the market
price of the common stock currently outstanding.
The interest of
our current stockholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity
securities.  As of December 31, 2010, we had authorized but unissued
4,826,550 shares of common stock, par value of $1.00 per share and 3,000,000
shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share.  In addition, 895,000
shares are available for future grant under the terms of our 2006 Omnibus Stock
Plan.  These awards may be granted in the form of options, restricted
stock, SARs or other equity-based interests, and if granted, would reduce that
number of shares available for future grants, provided however that an award
that may be settled only in cash, would not reduce the number of shares
available under the plan.  We cannot predict the impact that future
issuances of common or preferred stock or any exercise of outstanding options or
grants of additional equity-based interests would have on the market price of
our common stock.
ITEM 1B.     UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS
There are no
unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission as
of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
15
