Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Investing in Allied Capital involves a number of significant
risks relating to our business and investment objective. As a
result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our
investment objective.
Our portfolio of investments is illiquid.
 We generally
acquire our investments directly from the issuer in privately
negotiated transactions. The majority of the investments in our
portfolio are subject to certain restrictions on resale or
otherwise have no established trading market. We typically exit
our investments when the portfolio company has a liquidity event
such as a sale, recapitalization, or initial public offering of
the company. The illiquidity of our investments may adversely
affect our ability to dispose of debt and equity securities at
times when we may need to or when it may be otherwise
advantageous for us to liquidate such investments. In addition,
if we were forced to immediately liquidate some or all of the
investments in the portfolio, the proceeds of such liquidation
could be significantly less than the current value of such
investments.

Investing in private companies involves a high degree of
risk.
 Our portfolio primarily consists of long-term loans to
and investments in middle market private companies. Investments
in private businesses involve a high degree of business and
financial risk, which can result in substantial losses for us in
those investments and accordingly should be considered
speculative. There is generally no publicly available
information about the companies in which we invest, and we rely
significantly on the diligence of our employees and agents to
obtain information in connection with our investment decisions.
If we are unable to identify all material information about
these companies, among other factors, we may fail to receive the
expected return on our investment or lose some or all of the
money invested in these companies. In addition, these businesses
may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines,
smaller market shares and less experienced management than their
competition and may be more vulnerable to customer preferences,
market conditions, loss of key personnel, or economic downturns,
which may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of,
our investment in such businesses. As an investor, we are
subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make a business
decision that does not serve our interest, which could decrease
the value of our investment. Deterioration in a portfolio
company’s financial condition and prospects may be
accompanied by deterioration in any collateral for the loan.

Substantially all of our portfolio investments are recorded
at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of
Directors and, as a result, there is uncertainty regarding the
value of our portfolio investments.
 At December 31,
2006, portfolio investments recorded at fair value were 92% of
our total assets. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act,
we value substantially all of our investments at fair value as
determined in good faith by our Board of Directors on a
quarterly basis. Since there is typically no readily available
market value for the investments in our portfolio, our Board of
Directors determines in

19


 PAGEBREAK 

good faith the fair value of these investments pursuant to a
valuation policy and a consistently applied valuation process.

     
There is no single standard for determining fair value in good
faith. As a result, determining fair value requires that
judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of
each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied
valuation process for the types of investments we make. In
determining fair value in good faith, we generally obtain
financial and other information from portfolio companies, which
may represent unaudited, projected or proforma financial
information. Unlike banks, we are not permitted to provide a
general reserve for anticipated loan losses; we are instead
required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual
investment on a quarterly basis and record unrealized
depreciation for an investment that we believe has become
impaired, including where collection of a loan or realization of
an equity security is doubtful, or when the enterprise value of
the portfolio company does not currently support the cost of our
debt or equity investment. Enterprise value means the entire
value of the company to a potential buyer, including the sum of
the values of debt and equity securities used to capitalize the
enterprise at a point in time. We will record unrealized
appreciation if we believe that the underlying portfolio company
has appreciated in value and/or our equity security has
appreciated in value. Without a readily available market value
and because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, the fair
value of our investments determined in good faith by the Board
of Directors may differ significantly from the values that would
have been used had a ready market existed for the investments,
and the differences could be material. Our net asset value could
be affected if our determination of the fair value of our
investments is materially different than the value that we
ultimately realize.

     
We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect
the Board of Directors’ determination of the fair value of
each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are
recorded in our statement of operations as net change in
unrealized appreciation or depreciation.

Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio
companies and harm our operating results.
 Many of the
companies in which we have made or will make investments may be
susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. An economic
slowdown may affect the ability of a company to repay our loans
or engage in a liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization,
or initial public offering. Our nonperforming assets are likely
to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease
during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may
decrease the value of any collateral securing some of our loans.
These conditions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio
and a decrease in our revenues, net income, and assets.

     
Our business of making private equity investments and
positioning them for liquidity events also may be affected by
current and future market conditions. The absence of an active
senior lending environment or a slowdown in middle market merger
and acquisition activity may slow the amount of private equity
investment activity generally. As a result, the pace of our
investment activity may slow. In addition, significant changes
in the capital markets could have an effect on the valuations of
private companies and on the potential for liquidity events
involving such companies. This could affect the timing of exit
events in our portfolio and could negatively affect the amount
of gains or losses upon exit.

Our borrowers may default on their payments, which may have a
negative effect on our financial performance.
 We make
long-term unsecured, subordinated loans and invest in equity
securities, which may involve a higher degree of repayment risk.
We primarily invest in companies that may have limited financial
resources, may be highly leveraged and may be unable to obtain
financing from traditional sources. Numerous factors may affect
a borrower’s ability to repay its loan, including the
failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry,
or negative economic conditions. A portfolio company’s
failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by
us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially,
termination of its loans or foreclosure on its secured assets,
which could trigger cross defaults under other agreements and
jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its
obligations under the loans or debt securities that we hold. In
addition, our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted
to incur, other debt that ranks senior to or equally with our
securities. This means that payments on such senior-ranking
securities may have to be made before we receive any payments on
our subordinated loans

20

 PAGEBREAK 

or debt securities. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial
condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in
any related collateral and may have a negative effect on our
financial results.

Our private finance investments may not produce current
returns or capital gains.
 Our private finance investments
are typically structured as unsecured debt securities with a
relatively high fixed rate of interest and with equity features
such as conversion rights, warrants, or options, or as buyouts
of companies where we invest in debt and equity securities. As a
result, our private finance investments are generally structured
to generate interest income from the time they are made and may
also produce a realized gain from an accompanying equity
feature. We cannot be sure that our portfolio will generate a
current return or capital gains.

Our financial results could be negatively affected if a
significant portfolio investment fails to perform as
expected.
 Our total investment in companies may be
significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if a
significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform
as expected, our financial results could be more negatively
affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant
than if we had made smaller investments in more companies. At
December 31, 2006, our largest investments at value were in
Mercury Air Centers, Inc. and Business Loan Express, LLC (BLX),
which represented 5.0% and 4.3% of our total assets,
respectively, and 2.2% and 4.4% of our total interest and
related portfolio income, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2006. BLX is a non-bank lender that
participates in the Small Business Administration
(SBA) 7(a) Guaranteed Loan Program and, as a result, is
subject to certain risks associated with changes in government
funding, ongoing audits, inspections and investigations, and
changes in SBA laws or regulations. The Office of the Inspector
General of the SBA and the United States Secret Service have
announced an ongoing investigation of allegedly fraudulently
obtained SBA-guaranteed loans issued by BLX. We understand that
BLX is working cooperatively with the SBA with respect to this
matter so that it may remain a preferred lender in the
SBA 7(a) program and retain the ability to sell loans into
the secondary market. The ultimate resolution of these matters
could have a material adverse impact on BLX’s financial
condition and, as a result, our financial results could be
negatively affected. See “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis — Private Finance, Business Loan
Express, LLC” for further information and discussion on
these matters.

We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or
loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing
in us.
 Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the
potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore,
increase the risks associated with investing in our securities.
We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks,
insurance companies, and other lenders or investors. Holders of
these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on our
consolidated assets that are superior to the claims of our
common shareholders. If the value of our consolidated assets
increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value
attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than
it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of
our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause net
asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have
had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our
consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest payable
on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase
more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in
our consolidated income would cause net income to decline more
sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline
could negatively affect our ability to make common stock
dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a
speculative investment technique. We and, indirectly, our
stockholders will bear the cost associated with our leverage
activity. Our revolving line of credit and notes payable contain
financial and operating covenants that could restrict our
business activities, including our ability to declare dividends
if we default under certain provisions.

     
At December 31, 2006, we had $1.9 billion of
outstanding indebtedness bearing a weighted average annual
interest cost of 6.5% and a debt to equity ratio of 0.67 to
1.00. If our portfolio of investments fails to produce adequate
returns, we may be unable to make interest or principal payments
on our indebtedness when they are due. In order for us to cover
annual interest payments on indebtedness, we must achieve annual
returns on our assets of at least 2.5% as of December 31,
2006.

21

 PAGEBREAK 
We may not borrow money unless we maintain asset coverage for
indebtedness of at least 200%, which may affect returns to
shareholders.
 We must maintain asset coverage for total
borrowings of at least 200%. Our ability to achieve our
investment objective may depend in part on our continued ability
to maintain a leveraged capital structure by borrowing from
banks, insurance companies or other lenders or investors on
favorable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able
to maintain such leverage. If asset coverage declines to less
than 200%, we may be required to sell a portion of our
investments when it is disadvantageous to do so. As of
December 31, 2006, our asset coverage for senior
indebtedness was 250%.

Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and
net investment income.
 Because we borrow money to make
investments, our net investment income is dependent upon the
difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the
rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be
no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates
will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment
income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds
would increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We
use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings and
equity capital to finance our investing activities. We utilize
our revolving line of credit as a means to bridge to long-term
financing. Our long-term fixed-rate investments are financed
primarily with long-term fixed-rate debt and equity. We may use
interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit
our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may
include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent
permitted by the 1940 Act. We have analyzed the potential impact
of changes in interest rates on interest income net of interest
expense.

     
Assuming that the balance sheet as of December 31, 2006,
were to remain constant and no actions were taken to alter the
existing interest rate sensitivity, a hypothetical immediate 1%
change in interest rates would have affected net income by
approximately 1% over a one year horizon. Although management
believes that this measure is indicative of our sensitivity to
interest rate changes, it does not adjust for potential changes
in credit quality, size and composition of the assets on the
balance sheet and other business developments that could affect
net increase in net assets resulting from operations, or net
income. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that actual
results would not differ materially from the potential outcome
simulated by this estimate.

We will continue to need additional capital to grow because
we must distribute our income.
 We will continue to need
capital to fund growth in our investments. Historically, we have
borrowed from financial institutions and have issued equity
securities to grow our portfolio. A reduction in the
availability of new debt or equity capital could limit our
ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90% of our taxable
ordinary income, which excludes realized net long-term capital
gains, to our shareholders to maintain our eligibility for the
tax benefits available to regulated investment companies. As a
result, such earnings will not be available to fund investment
originations. In addition, as a business development company, we
are generally required to maintain a ratio of at least 200% of
total assets to total borrowings, which may restrict our ability
to borrow in certain circumstances. We intend to continue to
borrow from financial institutions or other investors and issue
additional debt and equity securities. If we fail to obtain
funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our
investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which could
have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock.

Loss of regulated investment company tax treatment would
substantially reduce net assets and income available for debt
service and dividends.
 We have operated so as to qualify as
a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the
Code. If we meet source of income, asset diversification, and
distribution requirements, we will not be subject to
corporate-level income taxation on income we timely distribute
to our stockholders as dividends. We would cease to qualify for
such tax treatment if we were unable to comply with these
requirements. In addition, we may have difficulty meeting the
requirement to make distributions to our stockholders because in
certain cases we may recognize income before or without
receiving cash representing such income. If we fail to qualify
as a regulated investment company, we will have to pay
corporate-level taxes on all of our income whether or not we
distribute it, which would substantially reduce the amount of
income available for debt service and distributions to our
stockholders. Even if we qualify as a regulated investment
company, we generally will be subject to a

22


 PAGEBREAK 

corporate-level income tax on the income we do not distribute.
If we do not distribute at least 98% of our annual taxable
income in the year earned, we generally will be required to pay
an excise tax on amounts carried over and distributed to
shareholders in the next year equal to 4% of the amount by which
98% of our annual taxable income exceeds the distributions from
such income for the current year.

There is a risk that our common stockholders may not receive
dividends or distributions.
 We intend to make distributions
on a quarterly basis to our stockholders. We may not be able to
achieve operating results that will allow us to make
distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of
these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the
asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development
company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions.
Also, certain of our credit facilities limit our ability to
declare dividends if we default under certain provisions. If we
do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually,
we will suffer adverse tax consequences, including possible loss
of the tax benefits available to us as a regulated investment
company. In addition, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles and tax regulations, we include in income
certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as
contractual payment-in-kind interest, which represents
contractual interest added to the loan balance that becomes due
at the end of the loan term, or the accrual of original issue
discount. The increases in loan balances as a result of
contractual payment-in-kind arrangements are included in income
in advance of receiving cash payment and are separately included
in the change in accrued or reinvested interest and dividends in
our consolidated statement of cash flows. Since we may recognize
income before or without receiving cash representing such
income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to
distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income
to obtain tax benefits as a regulated investment company.

We operate in a competitive market for investment
opportunities.
 We compete for investments with a large
number of private equity funds and mezzanine funds, other
business development companies, investment banks, other equity
and non-equity based investment funds, and other sources of
financing, including specialty finance companies and traditional
financial services companies such as commercial banks. Some of
our competitors may have greater resources than we do. Increased
competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or
originate investments at attractive prices. As a result of this
competition, sometimes we may be precluded from making otherwise
attractive investments.

Our business depends on our key personnel.
 We depend on
the continued services of our executive officers and other key
management personnel. If we were to lose any of these officers
or other management personnel, such a loss could result in
inefficiencies in our operations and lost business
opportunities, which could have a negative effect on our
business.

Changes in the law or regulations that govern us could have a
material impact on us or our operations.
 We are regulated by
the SEC. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations that
govern business development companies, regulated investment
companies, and real estate investment trusts may significantly
affect our business. Any change in the law or regulations that
govern our business could have a material impact on us or our
operations. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to
time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and
regulations also are subject to change, which may have a
material effect on our operations.

Failure to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in
qualifying assets could preclude us from investing in accordance
with our current business strategy.
 As a business
development company, we may not acquire any assets other than
“qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after
giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total
assets are qualifying assets. See “Certain Government
Regulations.” Therefore, we may be precluded from investing
in what we believe are attractive investments if such
investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940
Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in
qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business
development company, which would have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making additional
investments in existing portfolio companies, which could result
in the dilution of our position, or could require us to dispose
of investments at inopportune times in order to comply with the
1940 Act. If we were forced to sell nonqualifying

23


 PAGEBREAK 

investments in the portfolio for compliance purposes, the
proceeds from such sale could be significantly less than the
current value of such investments.

Results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future
performance.
 Our operating results may fluctuate and,
therefore, you should not rely on current or historical period
results to be indicative of our performance in future reporting
periods. Factors that could cause operating results to fluctuate
include, but are not limited to, variations in the investment
origination volume and fee income earned, changes in the accrual
status of our loans and debt securities, variations in timing of
prepayments, variations in and the timing of the recognition of
net realized gains or losses and changes in unrealized
appreciation or depreciation, the level of our expenses, the
degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and
general economic conditions.

Our common stock price may be volatile.
 The trading price
of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of
the common stock may be higher or lower than the price paid by
stockholders, depending on many factors, some of which are
beyond our control and may not be directly related to our
operating performance. These factors include, but are not
limited to, the following:


    price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from
    time to time;

    significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of
    securities of business development companies or other financial
    services companies;

    volatility resulting from trading in derivative securities
    related to our common stock including puts, calls, long-term
    equity anticipation securities, or LEAPs, or short trading
    positions;

    changes in laws or regulatory policies or tax guidelines with
    respect to business development companies or regulated
    investment companies;

    actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in
    our operating results or changes in the expectations of
    securities analysts;

    general economic conditions and trends;

    loss of a major funding source; or

    departures of key personnel.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
     
Not applicable.

