Item 1A.
    Risk Factors.
Investing in Allied Capital involves a number of significant
    risks relating to our business and investment objective. As a
    result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our
    investment objective.
Risks
    Related to Liquidity
Certain events of default have occurred under our revolving
    credit facility and our private notes and, as a result, these
    lenders are permitted to accelerate repayment of the outstanding
    obligations thereunder.
  Certain events of default
    have occurred under our revolving credit facility and our
    private notes. The occurrence of an event of default permits the
    administrative agent for the lenders under the revolving credit
    facility, or the holders of more than 51% of the commitments
    under the revolving credit facility, to accelerate repayment of
    all amounts due, to terminate commitments thereunder, and to
    require us to provide cash collateral equal to the face amount
    of all outstanding letters of credit. Pursuant to the terms of
    the private notes, the occurrence of an event of default permits
    the holders of 51% or more of any issue of outstanding private
    notes to accelerate repayment of all amounts due thereunder.


    As of June 30, 2009 we had $50.0 million in
    outstanding borrowings and $62.0 million in outstanding
    letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility,
    and $1.0 billion in outstanding private notes. Neither the
    lenders nor the noteholders have accelerated repayment of our
    obligations; however, there can be no assurance that they will
    not accelerate repayment in the future. We do not have
    sufficient cash resources to repay these obligations should the
    lenders or noteholders accelerate these obligations.
    Acceleration of the amounts outstanding under the revolving
    credit facility or any issue of the private notes could have a
    material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition
    and operations.


    The existence of an event of default restricts us from borrowing
    or obtaining letters of credit under our revolving credit
    facility, and from declaring dividends or other distributions to
    our shareholders.


    In July 2009, we agreed in principle to terms with the
    revolving line of credit lenders and the private noteholders on
    a comprehensive restructuring of these debt agreements. In
    connection with these restructuring discussions, we repaid $100
    million of the outstanding private notes in the third quarter of
    2009. The terms of the restructuring are non-binding and remain
    subject to final documentation and closure. There can be no
    assurance of the timing of any debt restructuring or that we
    will complete a restructuring of our debt. Until the
    restructuring is completed, this debt remains subject to
    acceleration.

Our independent registered public accounting firm has
    expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a
    going concern.
  In its audit report on our
    financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 31,
    2008, our independent registered public accounting firm included
    an explanatory paragraph indicating that our consolidated
    financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will
    continue as a going concern. Certain


    108

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 

    events of default have occurred under our revolving credit
    facility and our private notes. These events of default provide
    the respective lenders the right to declare immediately due and
    payable unpaid amounts approximating $1.1 billion at
    June 30, 2009. We do not have available cash resources to
    satisfy all of the obligations under the revolving credit
    facility and the private notes should the lenders accelerate
    these obligations. These factors raise substantial doubt about
    our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated
    financial statements do not include any adjustments that might
    result from the outcome of these uncertainties.

Our use of leverage magnifies the potential for gain or loss
    on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in
    us.
  Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify
    the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and,
    therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our
    securities. We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to
    banks, insurance companies, and other lenders or investors.
    Holders of these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on
    our consolidated assets that are superior to the claims of our
    common shareholders. If the value of our consolidated assets
    increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value
    attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than
    it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of
    our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause net
    asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have
    had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our
    consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest payable
    on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase
    more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in
    our consolidated income would cause net income to decline more
    sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Leverage is
    generally considered a speculative investment technique. We and,
    indirectly, our stockholders will bear the cost associated with
    our leverage activity. Our revolving line of credit and notes
    payable contain financial and operating covenants that could
    restrict our business activities, including our ability to
    declare dividends if we default under certain provisions. Breach
    of any of those covenants could cause a default under those
    instruments. Such a default, if not cured or waived, could have
    a material adverse effect on us.


    At June 30, 2009, we had $1.8 billion of outstanding
    indebtedness bearing a weighted average annual interest cost of
    8.6% and a debt to equity ratio of 1.35 to 1.00. If our
    portfolio of investments fails to produce adequate returns, we
    may be unable to make interest or principal payments on our
    indebtedness when they are due. In order for us to cover annual
    interest payments on indebtedness, we must achieve annual
    returns on our assets of at least 4.9% as of June 30, 2009,
    which returns were achieved.

Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our
    ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional debt and
    equity capital.
  We will continue to need capital
    to fund growth in our investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are
    not permitted to issue indebtedness unless immediately after
    such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of
    at least 200%. As of June 30, 2009, our asset coverage was
    174%. There can be no assurance as to when we will be able to
    satisfy the asset coverage requirements of the 1940 Act, if at
    all, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse
    impact on our liquidity, financial condition, results of
    operations, and ability to pay dividends.


    We generally are not able to issue and sell our common stock at
    a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell
    our common stock, warrants, options, or rights to acquire our
    common stock at a price below the current net asset value per
    share of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines
    that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests
    of our stockholders and, in certain instances, our stockholders
    approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our
    securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than the
    price which, in the determination of our Board of Directors,
    closely approximates the market value of such securities (less
    any commission or discount). If our common stock continues to
    trade at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could
    adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Shares of
    business development companies, including shares of our common
    stock, have been trading at discounts to their net asset values.
    As of June 30, 2009, our net asset value per share was
    $7.49. The closing price of our shares on the NYSE at
    June 30, 2009 was $3.48. If our common stock trades below
    net asset value, the higher cost of equity capital may result in
    it being unattractive to raise new equity, which may limit our
    ability to grow. The risk of trading below net asset value is
    separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per
    share may decline.


    109

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 
Our credit ratings may change and may not reflect all risks
    of an investment in the debt securities.
  At
    June 30, 2009, our long-term debt carries a non-investment
    grade credit rating of B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, BB+
    by Standard & Poor’s, and BB by FitchRatings. Our
    credit ratings are an assessment of our ability to pay our
    obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our
    credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the
    publicly issued debt securities. There can be no assurance that
    the long-term debt ratings will be maintained.

Risks
    Related to Current Economic and Market Conditions
We are currently in a period of capital markets disruption
    and severe recession and we do not expect these conditions to
    improve in the near future. These market conditions have
    materially and adversely affected the debt and equity capital
    markets in the United States, which has had and could continue
    to have a negative impact on our business and
    operations.
  The U.S. capital markets have
    been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more
    than 12 months as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the
    debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial
    services sector, the repricing of credit risk in the credit
    market and the failure of major financial institutions. These
    events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions
    that are materially and adversely impacting the broader
    financial and credit markets and reducing the availability of
    credit and equity capital for the markets as a whole and
    financial services firms in particular. We believe that the
    U.S. economy has entered into a period of severe recession,
    and forecasts for 2009 generally call for a weakening economy in
    the United States, with the continuation of the economic
    recession and possibly an economic depression. As a result, we
    believe these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of
    time or worsen in the future. A prolonged period of market
    illiquidity will continue to have an adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, and results of operations.
    Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding
    costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a
    decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Equity capital
    may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited
    exceptions, we generally are not able to issue and sell our
    common stock at a price below net asset value per share. In
    addition, the debt capital that will be available, if at all,
    may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and
    conditions. These events and the inability to raise capital has
    significantly limited our investment originations, limited our
    ability to grow and negatively impacted our operating results.

Economic recessions, including the current global recession,
    could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating
    results.
  Many of the companies in which we have
    made or will make investments are susceptible to economic
    slowdowns or recessions. An economic recession, including the
    current and any future recessions or economic slowdowns, may
    affect the ability of a company to repay our loans or engage in
    a liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization, or initial
    public offering. Our nonperforming assets are likely to increase
    and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during
    these periods. Current adverse economic conditions also have
    decreased the value of any collateral securing our loans, if
    any, and a prolonged recession or depression may further
    decrease such value. These conditions are contributing to and if
    prolonged could lead to further losses of value in our portfolio
    and a decrease in our revenues, net income, assets and net worth.

Risks
    Related to Asset Values
Declining asset values and illiquidity in the corporate debt
    markets have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely
    affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing
    the value of our assets.
  As a BDC, we are
    required to carry our investments at market value or, if no
    market value is readily available, at fair value as determined
    in good faith by the Board of Directors. Decreases in the values
    of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. The
    continuing unprecedented declines in asset values and liquidity
    in the corporate debt markets have resulted in significant net
    unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. As of June 30,
    2009, conditions in the debt and equity markets had continued to
    deteriorate and pricing levels continued to decline. As a
    result, we have incurred and, depending on market conditions, we
    may incur further unrealized depreciation in future periods,
    which could have a material adverse impact on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


    110

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 
Substantially all of our portfolio investments, which are
    generally illiquid, are recorded at fair value as determined in
    good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is
    uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio
    investments.
  At June 30, 2009, portfolio
    investments recorded at fair value were 79% of our total assets.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, we value
    substantially all of our investments at fair value as determined
    in good faith by our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
    Since there is typically no market quotation in an active market
    for the investments in our portfolio, our Board of Directors
    determines in good faith the fair value of these investments
    pursuant to a valuation policy and a consistently applied
    valuation process.


    There is no single approach for determining fair value in good
    faith. As a result, determining fair value requires that
    judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of
    each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied
    valuation process for the types of investments we make. In
    determining fair value in good faith, we generally obtain
    financial and other information from portfolio companies, which
    may represent unaudited, projected or pro forma financial
    information. Unlike banks, we are not permitted to provide a
    general reserve for anticipated loan losses; we are instead
    required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual
    investment on a quarterly basis. We will record unrealized
    depreciation on investments when we determine that the fair
    value of a security is less than its cost basis, and unrealized
    appreciation when we determine that the fair value of a security
    is greater than its cost basis. Without a market quotation in an
    active market and because of the inherent uncertainty of
    valuation, the fair value of our investments determined in good
    faith by the Board of Directors may differ significantly from
    the values that would have been used had a ready market existed
    for the investments, and the differences could be material. Our
    net asset value could be affected if our determination of the
    fair value of our investments is materially different than the
    value that we ultimately realize.


    We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect
    the Board of Directors’ determination of the fair value of
    each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are
    recorded in our statement of operations as net change in
    unrealized appreciation or depreciation. See Note 2,
    “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” from our
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    Item 1.

Risks
    Related to Our Portfolio
Our portfolio of investments is illiquid.
  We
    generally acquire our investments directly from the issuer in
    privately negotiated transactions. The majority of the
    investments in our portfolio are subject to certain restrictions
    on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. We
    typically exit our investments when the portfolio company has a
    liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization, or initial
    public offering of the company. The illiquidity of our
    investments may adversely affect our ability to dispose of debt
    and equity securities at times when we may need to or when it
    may be otherwise advantageous for us to liquidate such
    investments. In addition, if we were forced to immediately
    liquidate some or all of the investments in the portfolio, the
    proceeds of such liquidation could be significantly less than
    the current value of such investments.


    Our business of making private equity investments and
    positioning them for liquidity events also may be affected by
    current and future market conditions. Current economic and
    capital markets conditions in the U.S. have severely
    reduced capital availability, senior lending activity and middle
    market merger and acquisition activity. The absence of an active
    senior lending environment and the slowdown or stalling in
    middle market merger and acquisition activity has slowed the
    amount of private equity investment activity generally. As a
    result, our investment activity has also slowed. In addition,
    significant changes in the capital markets, including the recent
    extreme volatility and disruption, has had and may continue to
    have a negative effect on the valuations of our investments, and
    on the potential for liquidity events involving such
    investments. This could affect the timing of exit events in our
    portfolio, reduce the level of net realized gains from exit
    events in a given year, and could negatively affect the amount
    of gains or losses upon exit.

Investing in private companies involves a high degree of
    risk.
  Our portfolio primarily consists of
    long-term loans to and investments in middle market private
    companies. Investments in private businesses involve a high
    degree of business and financial risk, which can result in
    substantial losses for us in those investments and accordingly
    should be considered speculative. There is generally no publicly
    available information about the


    111

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 

    companies in which we invest, and we rely significantly on the
    diligence of our employees and agents to obtain information in
    connection with our investment decisions. If we are unable to
    identify all material information about these companies, among
    other factors, we may fail to receive the expected return on our
    investment or lose some or all of the money invested in these
    companies. In addition, these businesses may have shorter
    operating histories, narrower product lines, smaller market
    shares and less experienced management than their competition
    and may be more vulnerable to customer preferences, market
    conditions, loss of key personnel, or economic downturns, which
    may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our
    investment in such businesses. As an investor, we are subject to
    the risk that a portfolio company may make a business decision
    that does not serve our interest, which could decrease the value
    of our investment. Deterioration in a portfolio company’s
    financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by
    deterioration in the collateral for a loan, if any.

Our borrowers may default on their payments, which may have a
    negative effect on our financial performance.
  We
    make long-term loans and invest in equity securities primarily
    in private middle market companies, which may involve a higher
    degree of repayment risk. We primarily invest in companies that
    may have limited financial resources, may be highly leveraged
    and may be unable to obtain financing from traditional sources.
    Numerous factors may affect a borrower’s ability to repay
    its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan, a
    downturn in its industry, or negative economic conditions. A
    portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or
    operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to
    defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans or
    foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross
    defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio
    company’s ability to meet its obligations under the loans
    or debt securities that we hold. In addition, our portfolio
    companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt
    that ranks senior to or equally with our securities. This means
    that payments on such senior-ranking securities may have to be
    made before we receive any payments on our subordinated loans or
    debt securities. Deterioration in a borrower’s financial
    condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in
    any related collateral and may have a negative effect on our
    financial results.

We may be unable to fund our commitments to our portfolio
    companies as they become due, which may have a material adverse
    effect on our business.
  We have outstanding
    investment commitments that at June 30, 2009 totaled
    $568.4 million. In addition, at June 30, 2009, we had
    standby letters of credit issued under our revolving line of
    credit and certain guarantees related to portfolio companies of
    $62.0 million. We are currently in default under the terms
    of our revolving line of credit and private notes, and in
    addition our asset coverage is less than the 200% required by
    the 1940 Act for us to issue new debt. As a result, we are
    currently unable to borrow additional money to fund these
    commitments. In addition, because our common stock trades at a
    price that is less than our net asset value per share, we may
    not be able to raise funds through additional equity offerings
    in order to fund these commitments. To the extent we are unable
    to fund these commitments, it could have a material adverse
    effect on our portfolio companies, and as a result, have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our private finance investments may not produce current
    returns or capital gains.
  Our private finance
    portfolio includes loans and debt securities that require the
    payment of interest currently and equity securities such as
    conversion rights, warrants, or options, minority equity
    co-investments, or more significant equity investments in the
    case of buyout transactions. Our private finance debt
    investments are generally structured to generate interest income
    from the time they are made and our equity investments may also
    produce a realized gain. We cannot be sure that our portfolio
    will generate a current return or capital gains.

Our financial results could be negatively affected if a
    significant portfolio investment fails to perform as
    expected.
  Our total investment in companies may
    be significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if
    a significant investment in one or more companies fails to
    perform as expected, our financial results could be more
    negatively affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more
    significant than if we had made smaller investments in more
    companies.


    At June 30, 2009, our investment in Ciena Capital LLC
    (Ciena) totaled $547.6 million at cost and
    $93.0 million at value, after the effect of unrealized
    depreciation of $454.5 million. Other assets includes
    additional amounts receivable from or related to Ciena totaling
    $66.8 million, which have a value of $2.0 million at
    June 30, 2009. In addition, we have provided standby
    letters of credit, issued in connection with term securitization
    transactions


    112

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 

    completed by Ciena, that totaled $46.0 million at
    June 30, 2009, and we issued performance guarantees in
    connection with two non-recourse warehouse facilities. On
    September 30, 2008, Ciena voluntarily filed for bankruptcy.


    Ciena has been a participant in the SBA’s 7(a) Guaranteed
    Loan Program and its wholly-owned subsidiary is licensed by the
    SBA as a Small Business Lending Company (SBLC). Ciena remains
    subject to SBA rules and regulations. The Office of the
    Inspector General of the SBA (OIG) and the United States
    Secret Service are conducting ongoing investigations of
    allegedly fraudulently obtained SBA-guaranteed loans issued by
    Ciena. Ciena is also subject to other SBA and OIG audits,
    investigations, and reviews. In addition, the Office of the
    Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Agriculture is
    conducting an investigation of Ciena’s lending practices
    under the Business and Industry Loan program. The OIG and the
    U.S. Department of Justice are also conducting a civil
    investigation of Ciena’s lending practices in various
    jurisdictions. These investigations, audits, and reviews are
    ongoing. These investigations, audits, and reviews have had and
    may continue to have a material adverse impact on Ciena and, as
    a result, could negatively affect our financial results. See
    “Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Private Finance, Ciena Capital LLC.”

We operate in a competitive market for investment
    opportunities.
  We compete for investments with a
    large number of private equity funds and mezzanine funds, other
    business development companies, investment banks, other equity
    and non-equity based investment funds, and other sources of
    financing, including specialty finance companies and traditional
    financial services companies such as commercial banks. Some of
    our competitors may have greater resources than we do. Increased
    competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or
    originate investments at attractive prices. As a result of this
    competition, sometimes we may be precluded from making otherwise
    attractive investments.

Risks
    Related to Regulation as a Business Development Company and
    Regulated Investment Company
Loss of regulated investment company tax treatment could
    negatively impact our ability to service our debt and pay
    dividends.
  We have operated so as to qualify as a
    regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Code. If
    we meet source of income, asset diversification, and
    distribution requirements, we generally will not be subject to
    corporate-level income taxation on income we timely distribute,
    or deem to distribute, to our shareholders as dividends. We
    would cease to qualify for such tax treatment if we were unable
    to comply with these requirements. In addition, we may have
    difficulty meeting the requirement to make distributions to our
    shareholders because in certain cases we may recognize income
    before or without receiving cash representing such income. If we
    fail to qualify as a regulated investment company, we will have
    to pay corporate-level taxes on all of our income whether or not
    we distribute it, which could negatively impact our ability to
    service our debt and pay dividends to our shareholders. Even if
    we qualify as a regulated investment company, we generally will
    be subject to a corporate-level income tax on the income we do
    not distribute. If we do not distribute at least 98% of our
    annual taxable income (excluding net long-term capital gains
    retained or deemed to be distributed) in the year earned, we
    generally will be required to pay an excise tax on amounts
    carried over and distributed to shareholders in the next year
    equal to 4% of the amount by which 98% of our annual taxable
    income available for distribution exceeds the distributions from
    such income for the current year.

Failure to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in
    qualifying assets could preclude us from investing in accordance
    with our current business strategy.
  As a business
    development company, we may not acquire any assets other than
    “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after
    giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total
    assets are qualifying assets. Therefore, we may be precluded
    from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if
    such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the
    1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets
    in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business
    development company, which would have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
    Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making additional
    investments in existing portfolio companies, which could result
    in the dilution of our position, or could require us to dispose
    of investments at inopportune times in order to comply


    113

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 

    with the 1940 Act. If we were forced to sell nonqualifying
    investments in the portfolio for compliance purposes, the
    proceeds from such sale could be significantly less than the
    current value of such investments.

Changes in the law or regulations that govern us could have a
    material impact on us or our operations.
  We are
    regulated by the SEC. In addition, changes in the laws or
    regulations that govern business development companies,
    regulated investment companies, asset managers, and real estate
    investment trusts may significantly affect our business. There
    are proposals being considered by the current administration to
    change the regulation of financial institutions that may affect,
    possibly adversely, investment managers or investment funds. Any
    change in the law or regulations that govern our business could
    have a material impact on us or our operations. Laws and
    regulations may be changed from time to time, and the
    interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations also are
    subject to change, which may have a material effect on our
    operations.

Risks
    Related to Our Ability to Pay Dividends to Our
    Shareholders
There is a risk that our common stockholders may not receive
    dividends or distributions.
  We may not be able to
    achieve operating results that will allow us to make
    distributions at a specific level or at all. In addition, due to
    the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business
    development company, we may be precluded from making
    distributions. Also, certain of our credit facilities limit our
    ability to declare dividends if we default under certain
    provisions. As of June 30, 2009 we had an asset coverage of
    174%. Therefore, we may be precluded from declaring dividends or
    other distributions to our shareholders unless our asset
    coverage is at least 200%.


    If we do not meet the distribution requirements for regulated
    investment companies, we will suffer adverse tax consequences.
    In addition, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles and tax regulations, we include in income
    certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as
    contractual
    
payment-in-kind

    interest, which represents contractual interest added to the
    loan balance that becomes due at the end of the loan term, or
    the accrual of original issue discount. The increases in loan
    balances as a result of contractual
    
payment-in-kind

    arrangements are included in income in advance of receiving cash
    payment and are separately included in
    
payment-in-kind

    interest and dividends, net of cash collections in our
    consolidated statement of cash flows. Since we may recognize
    income before or without receiving cash representing such
    income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to
    distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income
    to obtain tax benefits as a regulated investment company.

Risks
    Related to Changes in Interest Rates
Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and
    net investment income.
  Because we borrow money to
    make investments, our net investment income is dependent upon
    the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the
    rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be
    no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates
    will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment
    income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds
    would increase, which would reduce our net investment income. In
    addition, defaults under our borrowing arrangements may result
    in higher interest costs during the continuance of an event of
    default. In July 2009, we agreed in principle to terms with the
    lenders under our revolving line of credit and the holders of
    our private notes on a comprehensive restructuring of these debt
    agreements. We expect the restructured debt to result in a
    significantly increased cost of capital. As a result, we expect
    our profitability will be substantially reduced. We may use
    interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit
    our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may
    include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent
    permitted by the 1940 Act.

Risks
    Related to Asset Management Activities
There are potential conflicts of interest between us and the
    funds managed by us.
  Certain of our officers
    serve or may serve in an investment management capacity to funds
    managed by us. As a result, investment professionals may
    allocate such time and attention as is deemed appropriate and
    necessary to carry out the


    114

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 

    operations of the managed funds. In this respect, they may
    experience diversions of their attention from us and potential
    conflicts of interest between their work for us and their work
    for the managed funds in the event that the interests of the
    managed funds run counter to our interests.


    Although managed funds may have a different primary investment
    objective than we do, the managed funds may, from time to time,
    invest in the same or similar asset classes that we target. In
    addition, more than one fund managed by us may invest in the
    same or similar asset classes. These investments may be made at
    the direction of the same individuals acting in their capacity
    on behalf of us and one or more of the managed funds. As a
    result, there may be conflicts in the allocation of investment
    opportunities between us and the managed funds or among the
    managed funds. We may or may not participate in investments made
    by investment funds managed by us or one of our affiliates. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of
    Operations — Managed Funds.”


    We have sold assets to certain managed funds and, as part of our
    investment strategy, we may offer to sell additional assets to
    managed funds or we may purchase assets from managed funds. In
    addition, funds managed by us may offer assets to or may
    purchase assets from one another. While assets may be sold or
    purchased at prices that are consistent with those that could be
    obtained from third parties in the marketplace, there is an
    inherent conflict of interest in such transactions between us
    and funds we manage.

Our financial results could be negatively affected if our
    Managed Funds fail to perform as expected.
  In the
    event that any of our Managed Funds were to perform below our
    expectations, our financial results could be negatively affected
    as a result of a reduction in management fees, the deferral in
    payment of management fees or a reduction in incentive fees we
    earn. Also, if the Managed Funds perform below expectations,
    investors could demand lower fees or fee concessions which could
    also cause a decline in our income. In addition, certain of our
    Managed Funds are required to meet various compliance and
    maintenance tests related to, among other things, the ratings on
    fund assets and the ratio of collateral to a fund’s
    outstanding debt. If a Managed Fund fails to comply with these
    tests, the payment of a portion of our management fees could be
    deferred until a fund regains compliance with such tests.


    Moreover, because we are also an investor in certain of our
    Managed Funds, we could experience losses on our investments.

Other
    Risks
Our business depends on our key personnel.
  We
    depend on the continued services of our executive officers and
    other key management personnel. If we were to lose certain of
    these officers or other management personnel, such a loss could
    result in inefficiencies in our operations and lost business
    opportunities, which could have a negative effect on our
    business.

Results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future
    performance.
  Our operating results may fluctuate
    and, therefore, you should not rely on current or historical
    period results to be indicative of our performance in future
    reporting periods. Factors that could cause operating results to
    fluctuate include, but are not limited to, variations in the
    investment origination volume and fee income earned, changes in
    the accrual status of our loans and debt securities, variations
    in timing of prepayments, variations in and the timing of the
    recognition of net realized gains or losses and changes in
    unrealized appreciation or depreciation, the level of our
    expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our
    markets, and general economic conditions.

Our common stock price may be volatile.
  The
    trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially.
    The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme
    volatility and disruption for more than 12 months, reaching
    unprecedented levels. We have experienced significant stock
    price volatility. In general, the price of the common stock may
    be higher or lower than the price paid by stockholders,
    depending on many factors,


    115

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 

    some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly
    related to our operating performance. These factors include, but
    are not limited to, the following:


    price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from
    time to time;


    significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of
    securities of business development companies or other financial
    services companies;


    volatility resulting from trading in derivative securities
    related to our common stock including puts, calls, long-term
    equity anticipation securities, or LEAPs, or short trading
    positions;


    the financial performance of the specific industries in which we
    invest on a recurring basis;


    changes in laws or regulatory policies or tax guidelines with
    respect to business development companies or regulated
    investment companies;


    actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in
    our operating results or changes in the expectations of
    securities analysts;


    general economic conditions and trends;


    loss of a major funding source; or


    departures of key personnel.

The trading market or market value of our publicly issued
    debt securities may be volatile.
  Our publicly
    issued debt securities may or may not have an established
    trading market. We cannot assure that a trading market for our
    publicly issued debt securities will ever develop or be
    maintained if developed. In addition to our creditworthiness,
    many factors may materially adversely affect the trading market
    for, and market value of, our publicly issued debt securities.
    These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:


    the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities;


    the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms
    identical to these debt securities;


    the ratings assigned by national statistical ratings agencies;


    the general economic environment;


    the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market,
    if any;


    the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt
    securities;


    the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates
    generally; and


    market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the
    debt securities.


    There also may be a limited number of buyers for our debt
    securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market
    value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt
    securities.

Our common stock could be delisted from the New York Stock
    Exchange if we trade below $1.00 or if we fail to meet other
    listing criteria.
  In order to maintain our
    listing on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), we must continue
    to meet the NYSE minimum share price listing rule, the minimum
    market capitalization rule and other continued listing criteria.
    Under the NYSE continued listing criteria, the average closing
    price of our common stock must not be below $1.00 per share for
    30 or more consecutive trading days. In the event that the
    average closing price of our common stock is below $1.00 per
    share over a consecutive
    
30-day

    trading period, we would have a six-month cure period to attain
    both a $1.00 share price and a $1.00 average share price
    over 30 trading days.


    116

 END PAGE WIDTH 
 PAGEBREAK 
 BEGIN PAGE WIDTH 

    If our common stock were delisted, it could (i) reduce the
    liquidity and market price of our common stock;
    (ii) negatively impact our ability to raise equity
    financing and access the public capital markets; and
    (iii) materially adversely impact our results of operations
    and financial condition.

