Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Investing in Allied Capital involves a number of significant
risks relating to our business and investment objective. As a
result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our
investment objective.
Our portfolio of investments is illiquid.
 We generally
acquire our investments directly from the issuer in privately
negotiated transactions. The majority of the investments in our
portfolio are subject to certain restrictions on resale or
otherwise have no established trading market. We typically exit
our investments when the portfolio company has a liquidity event
such as a sale, recapitalization, or initial public offering of
the company. The illiquidity of our investments may adversely
affect our ability to dispose of debt and equity securities at
times when we may need to or when it may be otherwise
advantageous for us to liquidate such investments. In addition,
if we were forced to immediately liquidate some or all of the
investments in the portfolio, the proceeds of such liquidation
could be significantly less than the current value of such
investments.

Investing in private companies involves a high degree of
risk.
 Our portfolio primarily consists of long-term loans to
and investments in middle market private companies. Investments
in private businesses involve a high degree of business and
financial risk, which can result in substantial losses for us in
those investments and accordingly should be considered
speculative. There is generally no publicly available
information about the companies in which we invest, and we rely
significantly on the diligence of our employees and agents to
obtain information in connection with our investment decisions.
If we are unable to identify all material information about
these companies, among other factors, we may fail to receive the
expected return on our investment or lose some or all of the
money invested in these companies. In addition, these businesses
may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines,
smaller market shares and less experienced management than their
competition and may be more vulnerable to customer preferences,
market conditions, loss of key personnel, or economic downturns,
which may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of,
our investment in such businesses. As an investor, we are
subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make a business
decision that does not serve our interest, which could decrease
the value of our investment. Deterioration in a portfolio
company’s financial condition and prospects may be
accompanied by deterioration in any collateral for the loan.

Substantially all of our portfolio investments, which are
generally illiquid, are recorded at fair value as determined in
good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is
uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio
investments.
 At June 30, 2007, portfolio investments
recorded at fair value were 89% of our total assets. Pursuant to
the requirements of the 1940 Act, we value substantially all of
our investments at fair value as determined in good faith by our
Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Since there is
typically no readily available market value for the investments
in

104


 PAGEBREAK 

our portfolio, our Board of Directors determines in good faith
the fair value of these investments pursuant to a valuation
policy and a consistently applied valuation process.

     
There is no single standard for determining fair value in good
faith. As a result, determining fair value requires that
judgment be applied to the specific facts and circumstances of
each portfolio investment while employing a consistently applied
valuation process for the types of investments we make. In
determining fair value in good faith, we generally obtain
financial and other information from portfolio companies, which
may represent unaudited, projected or proforma financial
information. Unlike banks, we are not permitted to provide a
general reserve for anticipated loan losses; we are instead
required by the 1940 Act to specifically value each individual
investment on a quarterly basis and record unrealized
depreciation for an investment that we believe has become
impaired, including where collection of a loan or realization of
an equity security is doubtful, or when the enterprise value of
the portfolio company does not currently support the cost of our
debt or equity investment. Enterprise value means the entire
value of the company to a potential buyer, including the sum of
the values of debt and equity securities used to capitalize the
enterprise at a point in time. We will record unrealized
appreciation if we believe that the underlying portfolio company
has appreciated in value and/or our equity security has
appreciated in value. Without a readily available market value
and because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, the fair
value of our investments determined in good faith by the Board
of Directors may differ significantly from the values that would
have been used had a ready market existed for the investments,
and the differences could be material. Our net asset value could
be affected if our determination of the fair value of our
investments is materially different than the value that we
ultimately realize.

     
We adjust quarterly the valuation of our portfolio to reflect
the Board of Directors’ determination of the fair value of
each investment in our portfolio. Any changes in fair value are
recorded in our statement of operations as net change in
unrealized appreciation or depreciation.

Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio
companies and harm our operating results.
 Many of the
companies in which we have made or will make investments may be
susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. An economic
slowdown may affect the ability of a company to repay our loans
or engage in a liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization,
or initial public offering. Our nonperforming assets are likely
to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease
during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may
decrease the value of any collateral securing some of our loans.
These conditions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio
and a decrease in our revenues, net income, and assets.

     
Our business of making private equity investments and
positioning them for liquidity events also may be affected by
current and future market conditions. The absence of an active
senior lending environment or a slowdown in middle market merger
and acquisition activity may slow the amount of private equity
investment activity generally. As a result, the pace of our
investment activity may slow. In addition, significant changes
in the capital markets could have an effect on the valuations of
private companies, which may negatively affect the value of our
investments, and on the potential for liquidity events involving
such companies. This could affect the timing of exit events in
our portfolio and could negatively affect the amount of gains or
losses upon exit.

Our borrowers may default on their payments, which may have a
negative effect on our financial performance.
 We make
long-term unsecured, subordinated loans and invest in equity
securities, which may involve a higher degree of repayment risk.
We primarily invest in companies that may have limited financial
resources, may be highly leveraged and may be unable to obtain
financing from traditional sources. Numerous factors may affect
a borrower’s ability to repay its loan, including the
failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry,
or negative economic conditions. A portfolio company’s
failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by
us or other lenders

105


 PAGEBREAK 

could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its
loans or foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger
cross defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our
portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under
the loans or debt securities that we hold. In addition, our
portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur,
other debt that ranks senior to or equally with our securities.
This means that payments on such senior-ranking securities may
have to be made before we receive any payments on our
subordinated loans or debt securities. Deterioration in a
borrower’s financial condition and prospects may be
accompanied by deterioration in any related collateral and may
have a negative effect on our financial results.

Our private finance investments may not produce current
returns or capital gains.
 Our private finance investments
are typically structured as unsecured debt securities with a
relatively high fixed rate of interest and with equity features
such as conversion rights, warrants, or options, or as buyouts
of companies where we invest in debt and equity securities. As a
result, our private finance investments are generally structured
to generate interest income from the time they are made and may
also produce a realized gain from an accompanying equity
feature. We cannot be sure that our portfolio will generate a
current return or capital gains.

Our financial results could be negatively affected if a
significant portfolio investment fails to perform as
expected.
 Our total investment in companies may be
significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if a
significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform
as expected, our financial results could be more negatively
affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant
than if we had made smaller investments in more companies. At
June 30, 2007, our largest investments at value were in
Mercury Air Centers, Inc. and Business Loan Express, LLC (BLX),
which represented 6.3% and 4.4% of our total assets,
respectively, and 1.9% and 1.2% of our total interest and
related portfolio income, respectively, for the six months ended
June 30, 2007.

     
BLX is a national, non-bank lender that participates in the
SBA’s 7(a) Guaranteed Loan Program and is licensed by the
SBA as a Small Business Lending Company (SBLC). The Office of
the Inspector General of the SBA (OIG) and the United States
Secret Service are conducting an ongoing investigation of
allegedly fraudulently obtained SBA-guaranteed loans issued by
BLX. The OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice are also
conducting a civil investigation of BLX’s lending practices
in various jurisdictions. In addition, the Office of the
Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Agriculture is
conducting an investigation of BLX’s lending practices
under the Business and Industry Loan (B&I) program. These
investigations are ongoing.

     
As an SBA lender, BLX is also subject to other SBA and OIG
audits, investigations, and reviews. These investigations,
audits and reviews, changes in the laws or regulations that
govern SBLCs or the SBA 7(a) Guaranteed Loan Program, or
changes in government funding for this program could have a
material adverse impact on BLX and, as a result, could
negatively affect our financial results.

     
The current market conditions for small business loans remain
very competitive, and as a result, BLX continues to experience
high loan prepayments in its securitized loan portfolio. This
competitive environment combined with BLX’s liquidity
constraints has restrained BLX’s ability to grow its loan
origination volume. Due to the changes in BLX’s operations,
the status of its current financing facilities and the effect of
BLX’s current regulatory issues, ongoing investigations and
litigation, we are in the process of working with BLX with
respect to various potential strategic alternatives including,
but not limited to, recapitalization, restructuring, joint
venture or sale or divestiture of BLX or some or all of its
assets. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a
material adverse impact on BLX’s financial condition, and,
as a result, our financial results could be negatively affected.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Private
Finance, Business Loan Express, LLC”.

106

 PAGEBREAK 
We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or
loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing
in us.
 Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the
potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore,
increase the risks associated with investing in our securities.
We borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks,
insurance companies, and other lenders or investors. Holders of
these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on our
consolidated assets that are superior to the claims of our
common shareholders. If the value of our consolidated assets
increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value
attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than
it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of
our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause net
asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have
had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our
consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest payable
on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase
more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in
our consolidated income would cause net income to decline more
sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline
could negatively affect our ability to make common stock
dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a
speculative investment technique. We and, indirectly, our
stockholders will bear the cost associated with our leverage
activity. Our revolving line of credit and notes payable contain
financial and operating covenants that could restrict our
business activities, including our ability to declare dividends
if we default under certain provisions. Breach of any of those
covenants could cause a default under those instruments. Such a
default, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse
effect on us.

     
At June 30, 2007, we had $1.9 billion of outstanding
indebtedness bearing a weighted average annual interest cost of
6.6% and a debt to equity ratio of 0.64 to 1.00. We may incur
additional debt in the future. If our portfolio of investments
fails to produce adequate returns, we may be unable to make
interest or principal payments on our indebtedness when they are
due. In order for us to cover annual interest payments on
indebtedness, we must achieve annual returns on our assets of at
least 2.5% as of June 30, 2007, which returns were achieved.

We may not borrow money unless we maintain asset coverage for
indebtedness of at least 200%, which may affect returns to
shareholders.
 Under the 1940 Act and the covenants
applicable to our public debt, we must maintain asset coverage
for total borrowings of at least 200%. Our ability to achieve
our investment objective may depend in part on our continued
ability to maintain a leveraged capital structure by borrowing
from banks, insurance companies or other lenders or investors on
favorable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able
to maintain such leverage. If asset coverage declines to less
than 200%, we may be required to sell a portion of our
investments when it is disadvantageous to do so. As of
June 30, 2007, our asset coverage for senior indebtedness
was 256%.

Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and
net investment income.
 Because we borrow money to make
investments, our net investment income is dependent upon the
difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the
rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be
no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates
will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment
income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds
would increase, which would reduce our net investment income. We
use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings and
equity capital to finance our investing activities. We utilize
our revolving line of credit as a means to bridge to long-term
financing. Our long-term fixed-rate investments are financed
primarily with long-term fixed-rate debt and equity. We may use
interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit
our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may
include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent
permitted by the 1940 Act. We have analyzed the potential impact
of changes in interest rates on interest income net of interest
expense.

107


 PAGEBREAK 
     
Assuming that the balance sheet as of June 30, 2007, were
to remain constant and no actions were taken to alter the
existing interest rate sensitivity, a hypothetical immediate 1%
change in interest rates would have affected net income by
approximately 1% over a one year horizon. Although management
believes that this measure is indicative of our sensitivity to
interest rate changes, it does not adjust for potential changes
in credit quality, size and composition of the assets on the
balance sheet and other business developments that could affect
net increase in net assets resulting from operations, or net
income. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that actual
results would not differ materially from the potential outcome
simulated by this estimate.

We will continue to need additional capital to grow because
we must distribute our income.
 We will continue to need
capital to fund growth in our investments. Historically, we have
borrowed from financial institutions or other investors and have
issued debt and equity securities to grow our portfolio. A
reduction in the availability of new debt or equity capital
could limit our ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90%
of our investment company taxable ordinary income (as defined in
the Code), which excludes realized net long-term capital gains,
to our shareholders to maintain our eligibility for the tax
benefits available to regulated investment companies. As a
result, such earnings will not be available to fund investment
originations. In addition, as a business development company, we
are generally required to maintain a ratio of at least 200% of
total assets to total borrowings, which may restrict our ability
to borrow in certain circumstances. We intend to continue to
borrow from financial institutions or other investors and issue
additional debt and equity securities. If we fail to obtain
funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our
investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which could
have a material adverse effect on the value of our debt
securities or common stock.

Loss of regulated investment company tax treatment would
substantially reduce net assets and income available for debt
service and dividends.
 We have operated so as to qualify as
a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the
Code. If we meet source of income, asset diversification, and
distribution requirements, we generally will not be subject to
corporate-level income taxation on income we timely distribute
to our stockholders as dividends. We would cease to qualify for
such tax treatment if we were unable to comply with these
requirements. In addition, we may have difficulty meeting the
requirement to make distributions to our stockholders because in
certain cases we may recognize income before or without
receiving cash representing such income. If we fail to qualify
as a regulated investment company, we will have to pay
corporate-level taxes on all of our income whether or not we
distribute it, which would substantially reduce the amount of
income available for debt service and distributions to our
stockholders. Even if we qualify as a regulated investment
company, we generally will be subject to a corporate-level
income tax on the income we do not distribute. If we do not
distribute at least 98% of our annual taxable income in the year
earned, we generally will be required to pay an excise tax on
amounts carried over and distributed to shareholders in the next
year equal to 4% of the amount by which 98% of our annual
taxable income exceeds the distributions from such income for
the current year.

There is a risk that our common stockholders may not receive
dividends or distributions.
 We intend to make distributions
on a quarterly basis to our stockholders. We may not be able to
achieve operating results that will allow us to make
distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of
these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the
asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development
company, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions.
Also, certain of our credit facilities limit our ability to
declare dividends if we default under certain provisions. If we
do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually,
we will suffer adverse tax consequences, including possible loss
of the tax benefits available to us as a regulated investment
company. In addition, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles and tax regulations, we include in income
certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as

108


 PAGEBREAK 

contractual payment-in-kind interest, which represents
contractual interest added to the loan balance that becomes due
at the end of the loan term, or the accrual of original issue
discount. The increases in loan balances as a result of
contractual payment-in-kind arrangements are included in income
in advance of receiving cash payment and are separately included
in the change in accrued or reinvested interest and dividends in
our consolidated statement of cash flows. Since we may recognize
income before or without receiving cash representing such
income, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to
distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income
to obtain tax benefits as a regulated investment company.

We operate in a competitive market for investment
opportunities.
 We compete for investments with a large
number of private equity funds and mezzanine funds, other
business development companies, investment banks, other equity
and non-equity based investment funds, and other sources of
financing, including specialty finance companies and traditional
financial services companies such as commercial banks. Some of
our competitors may have greater resources than we do. Increased
competition would make it more difficult for us to purchase or
originate investments at attractive prices. As a result of this
competition, sometimes we may be precluded from making otherwise
attractive investments.

There are potential conflicts of interest between us and the
Allied Capital Senior Debt Fund, L.P. 
Certain of our
officers serve or may serve in an investment management capacity
to the Allied Capital Senior Debt Fund, L.P. (the Fund), a fund
that generally invests in senior, unitranche and second lien
debt. Specifically, the credit committee for the Fund includes
certain of our officers who serve in similar roles for us. These
investment professionals intend to allocate such time and
attention as is deemed appropriate and necessary to carry out
the operations of the Fund effectively. In this respect, they
may experience diversions of their attention from us and
potential conflicts of interest between their work for us and
their work for the Fund in the event that the interests of the
Fund run counter to our interests. Accordingly, they may have
obligations to investors in the Fund, the fulfillment of which
might not be in the best interests of us or our shareholders.

     
We have sold assets to the Fund and, as part of our investment
strategy, we may offer to sell additional assets to the Fund or
we may purchase assets from the Fund. While assets may be sold
or purchased at prices that are consistent with those that could
be obtained from third parties in the marketplace, there is an
inherent conflict of interest in such transactions between us
and the Fund.

     
Although the Fund has a different primary investment objective
than we do, the Fund may, from time to time, invest in the same
or similar asset classes that we target. These investments may
be made at the direction of the same individuals acting in their
capacity on behalf of us and the Fund. As a result, such
individuals may face conflicts in the allocation of investment
opportunities between us and the Fund. To the extent the Fund
invests in the same or similar asset classes, the scope of
opportunities otherwise available to us may be adversely
affected. We may also have the same or similar conflicts of
interest with one or more financing vehicles associated with the
Fund.

Our business depends on our key personnel.
 We depend on
the continued services of our executive officers and other key
management personnel. If we were to lose any of these officers
or other management personnel, such a loss could result in
inefficiencies in our operations and lost business
opportunities, which could have a negative effect on our
business.

Changes in the law or regulations that govern us could have a
material impact on us or our operations.
 We are regulated by
the SEC. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations that
govern business development companies, regulated investment
companies, and real estate investment trusts may significantly
affect our business. Any change in the law or regulations that
govern our

109

 PAGEBREAK 

business could have a material impact on us or our operations.
Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the
interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations also are
subject to change, which may have a material effect on our
operations.

Failure to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in
qualifying assets could preclude us from investing in accordance
with our current business strategy.
 As a business
development company, we may not acquire any assets other than
“qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after
giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total
assets are qualifying assets. Therefore, we may be precluded
from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if
such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the
1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets
in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business
development company, which would have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making additional
investments in existing portfolio companies, which could result
in the dilution of our position, or could require us to dispose
of investments at inopportune times in order to comply with the
1940 Act. If we were forced to sell nonqualifying investments in
the portfolio for compliance purposes, the proceeds from such
sale could be significantly less than the current value of such
investments.

Results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future
performance.
 Our operating results may fluctuate and,
therefore, you should not rely on current or historical period
results to be indicative of our performance in future reporting
periods. Factors that could cause operating results to fluctuate
include, but are not limited to, variations in the investment
origination volume and fee income earned, changes in the accrual
status of our loans and debt securities, variations in timing of
prepayments, variations in and the timing of the recognition of
net realized gains or losses and changes in unrealized
appreciation or depreciation, the level of our expenses, the
degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and
general economic conditions.

Our common stock price may be volatile.
 The trading price
of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of
the common stock may be higher or lower than the price paid by
stockholders, depending on many factors, some of which are
beyond our control and may not be directly related to our
operating performance. These factors include, but are not
limited to, the following:


    price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from
    time to time;

    significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of
    securities of business development companies or other financial
    services companies;

    volatility resulting from trading in derivative securities
    related to our common stock including puts, calls, long-term
    equity anticipation securities, or LEAPs, or short trading
    positions;

    changes in laws or regulatory policies or tax guidelines with
    respect to business development companies or regulated
    investment companies;

    actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in
    our operating results or changes in the expectations of
    securities analysts;

    general economic conditions and trends;

    loss of a major funding source; or

    departures of key personnel.
The trading market or market value of our publicly issued
debt securities may be volatile.
 Our publicly issued debt
securities may or may not have an established trading market. We
cannot assure

110


 PAGEBREAK 

that a trading market for our publicly issued debt securities
will ever develop or be maintained if developed. In addition to
our creditworthiness, many factors may materially adversely
affect the trading market for, and market value of, our publicly
issued debt securities. These factors include, but are not
limited to, the following:


    the time remaining to the maturity of these debt securities;

    the outstanding principal amount of debt securities with terms
    identical to these debt securities;

    the supply of debt securities trading in the secondary market,
    if any;

    the redemption or repayment features, if any, of these debt
    securities;

    the level, direction and volatility of market interest rates
    generally; and

    market rates of interest higher or lower than rates borne by the
    debt securities.
     
There also may be a limited number of buyers for our debt
securities. This too may materially adversely affect the market
value of the debt securities or the trading market for the debt
securities.

Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment
in the debt securities.
 Our credit ratings are an assessment
of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, real or
anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect
the market value of our publicly issued debt securities. Our
credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of
risks related to market conditions generally or other factors
discussed above on the market value of, or trading market for,
the publicly issued debt securities.

Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect
the return on the debt securities.
 If our debt securities
are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem the debt
securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower
than the interest rate paid on the debt securities. In addition,
if the debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we
may be required to redeem the debt securities at times when
prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid
on the debt securities. In this circumstance, a holder of the
debt securities may not be able to reinvest the redemption
proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate
as high as the debt securities being redeemed.

 link1 "<FONT style="font-size: 10.5pt">Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds</FONT>" 
