ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS 
This section supplements and updates certain of the
information found under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the “2008 Form 10-K”), and should be read in conjunction with the discussion of risk
factors set forth in such section. Based on the information currently known to us, the Company believes that the matters discussed below, together with the risk factors set forth in the 2008 Form 10-K, identify the most significant risk factors
affecting the Company. However, the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces are not limited to those described below and those set forth in the 2008 Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently
believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business and the trading price of its securities. 
The Credit
Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 will significantly impact our business practices and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 
The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “CARD Act”), requires the Company to make fundamental changes to
many of our current business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. Among other things, the CARD Act accelerated the effective date and expanded the scope of amendments adopted in December 2008 by federal bank regulators
in the United States to Regulation AA (i.e., “UDAP”), which relate to unfair and deceptive acts or practices, and Regulation Z, which relate to truth in lending, that restrict certain credit and charge card practices and require expanded
disclosures to consumers. In addition, the CARD Act provides consumers with the right to opt out of interest rate increases (with limited exceptions) and other significant changes to account terms. 
Most of the requirements of the CARD Act will become effective in February 2010, but several provisions will become effective on August 20, 2009. It is
difficult to evaluate the resulting impact on our business at this time, as a number of the provisions in the CARD Act require significant interpretation by the Federal Reserve. 
While the Company anticipates making certain changes to its product terms and practices that are designed to mitigate the impact of the changes required
by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that it will be successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company’s business practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors, including its ability to successfully implement its
business strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of the Company’s competitors, which are difficult to predict at this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, it will have a material
adverse effect on results of operations. 
86 
Table of Contents
