ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS 
This
section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the
information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional
risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. 
If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. 
Current Economic and Political Risks 
Difficult conditions in the global capital
markets and economy generally, as well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United
States and elsewhere around the world. 
Ongoing concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage and real
estate markets, sovereign debt crises, fear of a double-dip recession and geopolitical issues have contributed to uncertain expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with still relatively low levels of
business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, continue to impact global economies, which helped drive declines in credit and charge card usage and adverse changes in payment patterns by consumers and businesses. It is unclear the
degree to which the U.S. government’s economic stimulus spending will foster economic growth in the United States during the remainder of 2010. This environment has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us, in part because we are
very dependent upon consumer and business behavior. If the economy were to worsen, customer behaviors could change further. For example, Cardmembers could decide to redeem Membership Rewards points at abnormally high levels to replace cash
expenditures. 
Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, the volatility and
strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower
business investment and lower consumer spending is likely to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the factors discussed above may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to
fluctuate and diverge from expectations of analysts and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, and may impact the trading price of our common shares. 
The scarcity of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial markets, reduced consumer and business spending, and credit metric
performance also pose other risks to our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we may face the following risks, among others, in connection with these events: 
The processes we use to estimate losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions,
that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. 
Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite
credit to our customers become less predictive of future write-offs. 
67 
Table of Contents
In the event the respective three-month average rate of excess spread earned on credit card loans and charge card receivables securitized by us falls
below certain designated levels, the securitization trusts established by us would be required to fund a cash reserve account (from cash that would normally revert back to us through the collection process), or, in the event such three-month average
should fall below zero, the securitization trusts established by us would be required to amortize earlier than scheduled, which would accelerate our need for additional funding. 
Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect our commercial or other lending activities, among other
businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal
discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns. 
Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or
other catastrophic events may have a negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other
disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business
will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is likely to decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve health-related risks. 
If the conditions described above (or similar ones) persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our
results of operations and financial condition. 
Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to
meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. 
The global money and capital markets, while demonstrating
generally improved conditions, remain susceptible to volatility and disruption, which could negatively impact market liquidity conditions. 
We need liquidity to pay operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in
growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments from Cardmembers, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash,
deposits placed with the Company’s U.S. banks, debt instruments such as unsecured medium- and long-term notes and asset securitizations, and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities in certain non-U.S. markets. 
Notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune from pressures experienced broadly across the financial markets. The
fragility of the credit markets and the current economic and regulatory environment have impacted financial services companies. Although the market for our unsecured term debt and asset securitizations has improved since the third quarter of 2009,
there is no assurance that the markets will be open to us in the future. Therefore, our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on investor demand. In addition, our
liquidity position will be impacted by our ability to meet our objectives with respect to the growth of our brokered retail CD program and brokerage sweep account program and the implementation of our direct deposit initiative. We also would have
less flexibility in accessing the commercial paper market as a short-term funding vehicle due to Credco’s short-term debt rating and the volatility in the commercial paper market generally. 
In the event that current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek
additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and consumer deposits, the overall availability of credit to the financial services
industry, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in April 2009 by two of the major ratings agencies), and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders or depositors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term
financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to an economic downturn. 
68 
Table of Contents
Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies
take negative actions against us. While we experienced some positive credit trends in the latter half of 2009, if the performance of our charge card and credit card portfolios were to weaken through increasing delinquencies and write-offs, our
long-term and short-term debt ratings could be further downgraded and our access to capital could be materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could increase. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may
also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow
our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. If levels of market disruption and volatility worsen,
there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see “Financial Review—Funding Programs and Activities” on pages
40-43 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
We can be adversely affected by
the impairment of other financial institutions. 
Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be
adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute
transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies. Defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services
institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by one or more of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition. 
Any reduction in the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings could increase the
cost of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 
Although the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt have been downgraded during the second
quarter of 2009 by Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), two of the major rating agencies. The rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company and its subsidiaries, and
their ratings of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including their financial strength as well as factors not entirely within their control, including conditions affecting
the financial services industry generally, and the wider state of the economy. There can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain their current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other
things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the Company and its subsidiaries are able to obtain funding. 
We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company’s and
its subsidiaries’ ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the rating agencies. 
Adverse currency
fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations. 
During
2009, over 32% of our revenue net of interest expense was generated from activities outside the United States. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the United States
is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the

69 
Table of Contents

values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control
regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the revenues we receive from our international operations and have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations. 
Legal and Regulatory Risks 
The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 will significantly impact our business practices and could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations. 
The CARD Act requires the Company to make fundamental changes to many of
our current business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. Among other things, the CARD Act prohibits an issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances (with limited exceptions), requires additional account
disclosures, provides consumers with the right to opt out of significant changes to account terms, and restricts penalty fees and charges that may be imposed by an issuer. 
Most of the requirements of the CARD Act become effective in February 2010. Additional amendments to Regulation Z revising the open-end
credit disclosure requirements become effective on July 1, 2010. Two provisions of the CARD Act do not come into effect until August 22, 2010. One of these provisions addresses the reasonableness and proportionality of penalty fees
charged. The other provision requires issuers to evaluate past interest rate increases twice per year. The Federal Reserve is required to adopt regulations implementing these provisions, but has not yet done so. Because implementing regulations are
not final, it is difficult to assess the impact of these two provisions. However, the regulations implementing these provisions could have a significant impact on our results of our operations. 
While the Company is making certain changes to its product terms and practices that are designed to mitigate the impact of the changes
required by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that it will be successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company’s business practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors, including its ability to successfully
implement its business strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of the Company’s competitors, which are difficult to predict at this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, it will
have a material adverse effect on results of operations. 
Proposed legislative and regulatory reforms could, if enacted or adopted,
result in our business becoming subject to significant and extensive additional regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
The extreme disruptions in the capital markets since mid-2007 and the resulting instability and failure of numerous financial institutions
have led to numerous proposals for legislative and regulatory reform that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry and that may significantly impact the Company. These proposals include the following:

Establishing a federal consumer financial protection agency that would have, among other things, broad authority to regulate, and take enforcement
actions against, providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. 
Requiring heightened scrutiny and stricter regulation of any financial institution whose combination of size, leverage and interconnectedness could
pose a threat to financial stability if it failed, restricting the activities of such institutions, and allowing regulators to dismantle large or systemically important banks and financial institutions, even healthy ones, if they are considered a
grave risk to the economy. 
70 
Table of Contents
Requiring large financial institutions, including, as proposed, American Express, to contribute to a fund that would be used to recover the cost of
dismantling a bank or financial institution that is dismantled because it poses a grave risk to the economy. 
Changing requirements for the securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the
credit risk associated with the underlying securitization, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements for asset securitizations. 
Tightening controls on the ability of banking institutions to engage in transactions with affiliates. 
Assessing financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, including, as proposed, American Express, with a “financial crisis
responsibility fee” assessed at approximately 0.15% of total assets (less Tier 1 capital and less FDIC-assessed deposits). The fee as proposed would last for at least the next ten years and has been proposed for the purpose of recovering
projected losses from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. 
Limiting the size and activities of financial institutions, including proposals to repeal portions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

Amending regulatory capital standards, and increasing regulatory capital requirements, for banks and other financial institutions, including American
Express and its insured depository institution subsidiaries, and establishing new formulaic liquidity requirements applicable to financial institutions, including those proposals described above under “Supervision and Regulation—Proposed
Capital and Liquidity Requirements” on pages 38-39. 
Establishing heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of compensation policies at financial institutions, including those proposals described
above under “Supervision and Regulations—Compensation Practices” on pages 44-45. 
Lawmakers
and regulators in the United States and worldwide continue to consider these and a number of other wide-ranging and comprehensive proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial
institutions. For example, separate comprehensive financial reform bills were introduced in both houses of Congress in the second half of 2009, and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a financial reform bill in December of 2009, but similar
action has not been taken by the U.S. Senate. 
In addition to proposed legislation effecting the financial services industry,
our results of operations could be adversely impacted by other legislative action or inaction, including the potential failure of the U.S. Congress to extend the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could
increase our effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on our net income. 
We cannot predict the final form, or effects on
American Express, of these or other potential or proposed reforms. These and other potential or proposed legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of the Company’s business activities, limit our ability to pursue
business opportunities, require the Company to change certain of its business practices or alter its relationships with customers, affect retention of key Company personnel, or expose the Company to additional costs (including increased compliance
costs). Such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
Please see “Supervision and Regulation” on pages 
35-45 for more information about the regulation to which we are subject.

Potential actions by the FDIC and the rating agencies could impact the Company’s ABS program. 
The credit rating agencies are assessing the potential impact of the adoption of recently issued accounting standards for transfers of
financial assets and for consolidation of variable interest entities (the “New Accounting Standards”) on credit ratings of the securities issued by securitization trusts within the overall asset-backed

71 
Table of Contents

securities market. (The New Accounting Standards, previously issued as FASB Statements Nos. 166 and 167, are discussed further in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which you can
find on page 76 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) In particular, the agencies are assessing the FDIC’s safe harbor rule relating to the FDIC’s treatment of securitized assets in the
event of a sponsoring financial institution’s receivership or conservatorship. Pursuant to the safe harbor rule, the FDIC will not reclaim any financial asset transferred in connection with a securitization, provided that such transfer meets
all conditions for GAAP sale accounting. Although the FDIC extended, on an interim basis, the safe harbor rule to some transfers of financial assets in connection with securitizations where the transfer will no longer qualify for sale accounting
treatment under GAAP as a result of the New Accounting Standards, the Company cannot predict how the FDIC will act and whether or to what extent the safe harbor rule might apply in the future. Because the adoption of the New Accounting Standards may
cause some asset transfers to securitization trusts to no longer be deemed asset sales for accounting purposes within a company’s consolidated group, the rating agencies have indicated that they may ultimately conclude that the safe harbor no
longer applies and, in certain cases, that the highest rating an ABS security could receive would be based on the sponsoring bank’s unsecured debt rating, rather than relying on their separate evaluation of the securitization trust.
Accordingly, the ability of the Company’s securitization programs to receive or maintain AAA ratings on ABS securities under the same terms and conditions as it has done in the past, or at all, is subject to uncertainty. Any action by the
rating agencies as described above could adversely impact the Company’s ability to utilize ABS as a source of funding for its business. 
Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by increases in FDIC deposit insurance assessments. 
FDIC deposit insurance assessments have become considerably higher recently because market developments have significantly depleted the FDIC deposit insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to
insured deposits. The failure of additional insured depository institutions could result in further depletion of the deposit insurance fund. Assessments may continue to increase, and special assessments may be levied, until the value of the fund has
returned to levels the FDIC determines appropriate. We generally cannot control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, the FDIC will increase deposit insurance assessments
further or whether the FDIC will levy additional special assessments. Further increase in assessments, or imposition of special assessments, by the FDIC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulation and supervision to which we
are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company. 
On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and
TRS each became bank holding companies under the BHC Act and have elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, including,
without limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two U.S. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities under
the Federal Reserve’s regulations. For additional information about this change in regulatory status, please see “Supervision and Regulation—General” beginning on page 35 above. 
If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could
be adversely affected. 
We are subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock.

We are limited in our ability to pay dividends by our regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be
considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if

72 
Table of Contents

prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. For more information on bank holding company dividend
restrictions, please see “Financial Review—Share Repurchases and Dividends” on page 40 and Note 23 on page 119 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance
burdens on our Company and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network. 
We are subject to
regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the United States and many other countries in which our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous
regulations applicable to financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent
years. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional
obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our charge and credit Cards may be used, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge
and credit Cards. In addition, the European Union has adopted a new legislative directive, called the Payment Services Directive, for electronic payment services, including cards, that puts in place a common legal framework for licensing and
supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business. 
The U.S. Congress is also presently considering, or may consider, legislative initiatives in the area of Internet transactions, such as Internet prescription drug purchases and copyright and trademark infringement, among others, that could
impose additional compliance burdens on our Company. Federal and state law enforcement authorities have also contacted payment companies concerning these issues. If implemented, these initiatives may require us to monitor, filter, restrict, or
otherwise oversee various categories of charge and credit card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also considering regulations and legislation covering
identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards. These new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge
and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations and legislation could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit
cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth. 
In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers and the fees
merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Hungary, the European Union (EU), Australia, Brazil, Mexico, and Venezuela, among others, have conducted
investigations that are either ongoing or on appeal. The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in “four party” payment networks, like Visa and MasterCard, is
generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for bankcard debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have collectively set interchange fees. Although
the regulators’ focus has primarily been on Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card networks and on their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard associations’ pricing could
ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or
eliminating rewards programs. 
73 
Table of Contents
In the United States, Congress continues to debate the interchange issue. There have been
several hearings on Visa/MasterCard interchange over the last several years, and in 2009 at the request of Congress, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) completed a study on the structure of interchange fees and their impact on consumers and
merchants. The report provides a balanced view of the interchange issue and explains how large merchants would benefit and how consumers could be harmed by the pending legislative proposals. In 2009, legislation was reintroduced in Congress that
would give all U.S. merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate collectively the price and terms of card acceptance on networks. The House Judiciary Committee bill covers networks with at least a 20% share of U.S. credit and debit card payments
combined, which would not apply to the American Express network but, if enacted, would have an effect on American Express in the marketplace. The Senate version of the bill covers networks with at least 10% of U.S. credit or debit payments, which
would apply to American Express. Both bills have a default process for having prices and terms set through government action rather than competitive forces. A similar version of the House bill (the “Credit Card Fair Fee Act”) was passed in
the House Judiciary Committee in 2008. No action was taken on either of these bills in 2009. The House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on a third piece of interchange-related legislation that was reintroduced in 2009 (the “Credit
Card Interchange Fees Act”), a bill that would regulate payment network rules, including the American Express network. No further action was taken on this bill. It is expected that Congressional hearings will continue in 2010 on the interchange
issue. The Federal Reserve and various Federal Reserve Banks have been following developments on interchange and have held several conferences focused on interchange rates. While the Federal Reserve has expressed interest in monitoring this issue,
it has not indicated the need to regulate interchange rates in the United States. 
Increased regulatory focus on our Company,
such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely
impact our results of operations. 
If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest successfully in, and compete at
the leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. 
Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of
our business, including in transaction processing, data management, customer interactions and communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. We rely in part
on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new
technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our Cards, networks and other services. Our ability to develop, acquire, or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be
limited by patent rights that third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards or by resistance from
Cardmembers or merchants to such changes. 
We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and
proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss
of competitive advantage. In addition, competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and
business environment in which we operate and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property related litigation, we cannot assure you that a future assertion of an infringement claim against us will not cause us to lose significant
revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages. 
74 
Table of Contents
Regulation in the areas of privacy and data security could increase our costs and decrease the number
of charge and credit cards issued. 
We are subject to regulations related to privacy and data security/breach, and we
could be negatively impacted by these regulations. For example, in the United States, we are subject to the data security rule under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The data security rule requires that each financial institution develop, implement, and
maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the
sensitivity of any customer information at issue. 
Further, a growing number of states, including, notably, Massachusetts and
Nevada, have adopted broad-ranging data security regulations regarding the protection of customer and employee data that could result in higher compliance and technology costs for the Company, as well as potentially significant fines and penalties
for non-compliance. 
Many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate are also expanding the scope of their data security
requirements and standards, as well as increasing enforcement activity in this area. In 1995, the European Parliament and Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an individual’s personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. The
Data Protection Directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in European Union Member States. As these laws expand throughout the European Union where we have a significant commercial presence, compliance costs are
increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data privacy protections and data transfer mechanisms are in place. 
In addition to the foregoing enhanced data security requirements, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and as many as 45 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data breach regulations and
laws requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. Data breach laws are also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate, including Japan, Mexico and Germany. In many countries that
have yet to impose automatic data breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage data breaches.
Many of these regulations also apply broadly to retailers/merchants that accept our cards; thus, to the extent they experience data security breaches, this presents additional risks for American Express and our Cardmembers. The heightened
legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach, continues. The current 111th Congress will likely consider data security/data breach legislation in 2010 that, if
implemented, could present new risks and costs for us. 
We continue to seek ways to minimize these risks and costs internally
by improving our own data privacy and security policies and practices, and externally through regular improvements to the PCI Data Security Standard and by placing strong contractual obligations on retailers/merchants that accept our Cards, as well
as on our service providers, relating to data security and data breach. Still, increased regulation and enforcement activity throughout the world in the areas of data privacy and data security/breach may materially increase our costs and may
decrease the number of our Cards that we issue, or restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our failure to comply with the privacy and data security/breach laws
and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions, and damage to our global reputation and our brand. 
Our
success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. 
Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management
team is

75 
Table of Contents

relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may
not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. As further described in “Supervision and Regulation—Compensation Practices” on
pages 44-45, our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our
competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including any incentive compensation policies, could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. The
loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business. 
Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant
fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses. 
Businesses in the credit card industry have
historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. In addition, we may be involved in various
actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting in increased expenses and damage to our
global reputation and our brand. 
Business Risks 
Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry. 
The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in addition to charge and credit card networks, evolving alternative payment
mechanisms and systems. We are the third largest general-purpose charge and credit card network based on charge volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which are larger than we are in most markets. As a result, other card issuers may be able to benefit
from the strong position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and MasterCard. Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a
smaller number of significant issuers. Continuing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a strong relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor,
resulting in a potential loss of business for us. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers
remains intense. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors. 
In addition, some of our
competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve
broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats. 
Our competitors may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services than we are. Spending on our Cards could be impacted by consumer usage of debit cards, as we do not
currently issue point-of-sale debit cards for use on the American Express Network. In fact, the purchase volume and number of transactions made with debit cards in the United States has grown more rapidly than credit and charge card transactions. In
addition, to the extent alternative payment mechanisms and systems, such as aggregators, continue to successfully expand in the online payments space, our merchant revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network
could be negatively impacted. 
Regulators have recently put forward various proposals that may impact our businesses,
including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on certain financial institutions. These or
similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively. 
76 
Table of Contents
We face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants who
accept our Cards for payment for goods and services. 
Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high
revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is
primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. In recent years, we have been under market pressure to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. This pressure arises, in part, due
to the regulatory pressure on our competitors outside the United States, which has been increasing. If we continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate we charge merchants or are unable to sustain premium merchant discount
rates on our Cards without experiencing overall volume growth or an increase in merchant coverage, our revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 
We may not be successful in our efforts to promote Card usage through our marketing, promotion and rewards programs or to effectively control the costs of such programs, both of which may impact our
profitability. 
Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our Cardmembers. Increasing consumer and
business spending and borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and growth in Card lending balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or
enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. One of the ways in which we attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember attrition and seek to capture a greater share of customers’ total spending on Cards issued on
our network, both in the United States and in our international operations, is through our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Cardmember benefits. We may not be able to cost effectively manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including
containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember services expenses. In addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards and co-brand programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future
institute programs that are more attractive to cardmembers than our programs. 
Our ability to continue to invest in marketing,
promotion and rewards programs, as well as our overall profitability, may be negatively impacted if we are unable to replace the payments provided to us under our previously disclosed litigation settlements with Visa and MasterCard once the
aggregate settlement amounts have been paid in full through the fourth and second quarters of 2011, respectively. 
Our brand and
reputation are key assets of our Company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. 
Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain consumer Cardmembers and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business
practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential Cardmembers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers
and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Although we monitor
developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 
An increase in account data breaches and fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards.

We and other third parties store Cardmember account information in connection with our charge and credit Cards.
Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to Cardmembers’ accounts, including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As
outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable and common way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our Cards. If data breaches or fraud levels involving our Cards
were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention

77 
Table of Contents

(such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business.

We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that represent a significant
portion of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with these industries, including bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners, and the possible obligation to make payments to our partners.

In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual arrangements with business
partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with Costco and Delta Air Lines to offer co-branded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many
industries, most notably the airline industry, to offer benefits to Cardmember participants. The airline industry represents a significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations
and other similar events. In addition, under some types of these contractual arrangements, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, we may be obligated to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers. If we
are not able to effectively manage the triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we have credit risk to
certain co-brand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty program points that will not be fully redeemed for multi-year periods. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may
occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular card products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. For example,
we could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected to reimburse Cardmembers for products and services purchased from merchants that are bankrupt or have ceased operations. 
There could be continued significant consolidation in the airline industry, particularly in the United States, through mergers and/or grants
of antitrust immunity to airline alliances and joint ventures. The United States Department of Transportation has granted antitrust immunity to members of the Skyteam Alliance and the Star Alliance, enabling them to closely coordinate their
international operations and to launch highly integrated joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets. The Department of Transportation has granted preliminary approval of a similar request by members of the Oneworld Alliance for antitrust
immunity. Among other things, this immunity permits alliance members to jointly price and manage capacity on covered routes, share revenues and costs, and coordinate sales and corporate contracts, outside of the scope of the antitrust laws. The
European Commission’s review of each of these alliances is continuing. Increasing consolidation and expanded antitrust immunity could create challenges for our relationships with the airlines including by reducing our profitability on our
airline business. Airlines are also some of the most important and valuable partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have
to determine whether or not to continue participation. Similarly, if one of our co-brand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine which co-brand cards it would offer. If
a surviving airline determined to withdraw from Membership Rewards or to cease offering an American Express co-brand card, our business could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to the agreements with Delta and general risks
related to the airline industry, see “Financial Review—Exposure to Airline Industry” on page 60 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is hereby incorporated by reference. 
Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we
intended. 
We have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our business
operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and

78 
Table of Contents

improve our operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities
and operations consolidation, outsourcing functions (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet to save costs and planned
staff reductions relating to certain of these reengineering actions. If we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize on these efforts, including the ability of the Global Services Group to
generate an annualized level of gross expense savings of approximately $500 million by 2012, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Failure to achieve these benefits could have a negative effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. 
Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective. 
We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, settlement risk with regard to GNS partners, merchant
bankruptcies, the rate of bankruptcies, and other credit trends that can affect spending on Card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our Card products. 
Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are exposed to both consumer credit risk, principally from
Cardmember receivables and our other consumer lending activities, and institutional credit risk from merchants, GNS partners and GCC clients. Third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational
failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses.
Higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds. 
Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be
accurate. In addition, the information we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that
we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers.

We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. Market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios
and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the
value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net income, could fall. 
We must also accurately estimate the fair value of the assets in our investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not
readily marketable. 
Additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. Liquidity risk is
defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit
financial flexibility, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. For additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see “Adverse capital and credit market conditions may
significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital” above. 
Finally, we must
also manage the operational risks to which we are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving our business objectives due to failed processes, people or information systems, or from the external environment, such as natural
disasters. Operational risks include the risk that we may not

79 
Table of Contents

comply with specific regulatory or legal requirements, exposing us to fines and/or penalties and possibly brand damage; employee error or intentional misconduct that results in a material
financial misstatement; or a failure to monitor an outsource partner’s compliance with a service level agreement, resulting in economic harm to us. 
Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, our hedging strategies and other risk management
techniques may not be fully effective. See 
Financial Review—Risk Management” on pages 
47-49 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and
manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. Management of credit, market and operational risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these
policies and procedures may not be fully effective. 
An inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory
constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. 
As an
additional source of funding, our banking subsidiaries offer deposits to individuals through brokerage networks as well as directly to consumers. 
As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $26.3 billion in total customer deposits, a large portion of which was raised through brokerage networks. Many other financial services firms are
increasing their use of deposit funding, and as such we may experience increased competition in the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. We cannot predict how this increased competition will affect deposit renewal rates, costs or
availability. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. 
Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is also dependent on capital levels of our bank subsidiaries. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank, including our
banking subsidiaries, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless
(1) it is well-capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in
excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well-capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent
order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). While we met the FDIC’s definition of “well-capitalized” as of December 31, 2008 and December 31,
2009, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet this definition. Additionally, our regulators can adjust the requirements to be well-capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including
the interest rate we pay on deposits. An inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. 
If our global network systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue and profitability would be
materially reduced. 
Our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems may experience service
interruptions as a result of fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. A natural disaster or other problem at our facilities could interrupt our services.
Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster,
operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands’ reliability and materially reduce our revenue and profitability. 
80 
Table of Contents
We rely on third-party providers of various computer systems and other services integral to the
operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. 
We operate a service
network around the world. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses. A significant amount
of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. In addition, the
management of multiple third-party vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the
world. 
Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements 
We have made various statements in this Report that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,”
“optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely” and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in
forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking
statements. 
ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
Not applicable. 
I
TEM 2.
PROPERTIES 
Our principal
executive offices are in a 51-story, 2.2 million square foot building located in lower Manhattan. This building, which is on land leased from the Battery Park City Authority for a term expiring in 2069, is one of four office buildings in a
complex known as the World Financial Center. We have a 49% ownership interest in the building. Brookfield Financial Properties owns the remaining 51% interest in the building. We also lease space in the building from Brookfield. 
Other owned or leased principal locations include: the American Express Service Centers in Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona;
Greensboro, North Carolina; and Salt Lake City, Utah; the American Express Data Centers in Phoenix, Arizona and in Minneapolis, Minnesota; the American Express Finance Center in Phoenix, Arizona; the headquarters for American Express Services Europe
Limited in London, England; the Amex Canada Inc. headquarters in Markham, Ontario, Canada; and service centers located in Mexico City, Mexico; Sydney, Australia; Gurgaon, India and Brighton, United Kingdom. 
During 2004 and 2005, we engaged in several sale-leaseback transactions pursuant to which we sold various owned properties to third parties
and leased back the properties under long-term net leases whereby each American Express entity that leases back the property is responsible for all costs and expenses relating to the property (including maintenance, repair, utilities, operating
expenses and insurance costs) in addition to annual rent. The sale-leaseback transactions have not materially impacted our financial results in any year. Gains resulting from completed sale and leaseback transactions are amortized over the initial
ten-year lease periods. We continue to consider whether sale-leaseback transactions are appropriate for other properties that we currently own. 
81 
Table of Contents
Generally, we lease the premises we occupy in other locations. We believe that the
facilities we own or occupy suit our needs and are well maintained. 
ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
The
Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and arbitration proceedings, including class actions, concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of their respective business activities. The Company believes it has
meritorious defenses to each of these actions and intends to defend them vigorously. In the course of its business, the Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to governmental examinations, information gathering requests, subpoenas, inquiries
and investigations. The Company believes that it is not a party to, nor are any of its properties the subject of, any pending legal, arbitration, regulatory, tax or investigative proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, it is possible that the outcome of any such proceeding could have a material impact on results of operations in any particular reporting period as the proceedings are resolved.
Certain legal proceedings involving the Company are described below. 
Corporate Matters 
Beginning in mid-July 2002, 12 putative class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York. In October 2002, these cases were consolidated under the caption 
In re American Express Company Securities Litigation
. These lawsuits allege violations of the federal securities laws and the common law in connection
with alleged misstatements regarding certain investments in high-yield bonds and write-downs in the 2000-2001 timeframe. The purported class covers the period from July 26, 1999 to July 17, 2001. The actions seek unspecified
compensatory damages as well as disgorgement, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees and costs, and interest. On March 31, 2004, the Court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss the lawsuit. Plaintiffs appealed the dismissal to
the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In August 2006, the Court of Appeals, without expressing any views whatsoever on the merits of the cases, vacated the District Court’s judgment and remanded all claims to the
District Court for further proceedings. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on January 5, 2007. The Company subsequently filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, which motion was granted in September 2008. Plaintiffs
have appealed the dismissal. 
On November 24, 2009, a putative class action captioned 
Amick v. American Express Travel
Related Services Co.
, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to recover unpaid wages and overtime compensation at one of the Company’s call centers. The Plaintiff seeks to represent all similarly
situated employees in a collective action under the Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”) and in a Rule 23 class action under the North Carolina Wage and Hour Act. On January 26, 2010, the Court granted the Company’s motion to
transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina. 
In May 2008, a
shareholders’ derivative suit was filed in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan naming American Express Company and certain current and former directors and senior executives as defendants. The case captioned as 
City of Tallahassee
Retirement System v. Akerson et al.
 alleges breaches of fiduciary duty “arising from knowing breaches of fiduciary obligations by certain current and former officers and directors of the Company that have led to the imposition of deferred
criminal charges on a bank that at the time such charges were entered was owned by American Express, as well as the Company’s payment of approximately $65 million in penalties to federal and state regulators” related to American Express
Bank Limited’s (AEBL) and TRS’s anti-money laundering programs. The complaint also states that the sale of AEBL took place after American Express had “allowed the value of its banking business unit to be dramatically impaired on
account of the systemic violations of law and resulting deferred criminal charges.” The complaint seeks monetary damages on behalf of the Company. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint and in October 2009, the Court
dismissed the complaint against all defendants. The plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal of the dismissal. 
82 
Table of Contents
In December 2008, a putative class action captioned 
Obester v. American Express Company,
et. al.
 was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that the defendants violated certain ERISA obligations by: allowing the investment of American Express Retirement Savings Plan
assets in American Express common stock when American Express common stock was not a prudent investment; misrepresenting and failing to disclose material facts to Plan participants in connection with the administration of the Plan; and breaching
certain fiduciary obligations. The Company is also a defendant in three other putative class actions making allegations similar to those made in the Obester matter: 
Tang v. American Express Company, et. al.
, filed on December 29, 2008 in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 
Miner v. American Express Company et. al.
, filed on February 4, 2009 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, and 
DiLorenzo v.
American Express Company et. al.
, filed on February 10, 2009 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. American Express has filed a motion to dismiss these actions. In April 2009, these actions were
consolidated into a Consolidated Amended complaint, captioned 
In Re American Express ERISA Litigation
. American Express’ motion to dismiss this action is pending with the Court. 
On February 20, 2009, a putative class action captioned, 
Brozovich v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault and Daniel T.
Henry
, was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit alleged violations of the federal securities laws in connection with certain alleged misstatements regarding the credit quality of the
Company’s credit card customers. The purported class covered the period from March 1, 2007 to November 12, 2008. The action sought unspecified damages and costs and fees. The Brozovich action was subsequently
voluntarily dismissed. On March 27, 2009, a putative class action, captioned 
Baydale v. American Express Co., Kenneth I. Chenault and Daniel Henry
, which makes similar allegations to those made in the Brozovich action, was filed in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On October 13, 2009, plaintiff in the Baydale action filed an Amended Consolidated Class Action Complaint in the action. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss and that
motion is pending with the Court. 
U.S. Card Services and Global Merchant Services Matters 
Beginning July 2003 the Company has been named in a number of putative class actions in which the plaintiffs allege an unlawful antitrust
tying arrangement between certain of the Company’s charge cards and credit cards in violation of various state and federal laws. These cases have since all been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York under
the caption: “
In re American Express Merchants’ Litigation
”. A case making similar allegations was also filed in the Southern District of New York in July 2004 captioned: 
The Marcus Corporation v. American Express
Company et al.
, The Marcus case is not consolidated. The plaintiffs in these actions seek injunctive relief and an unspecified amount of damages. On April 30, 2004, the Company filed a motion to dismiss all the actions filed prior to
the date of its motion. On March 15, 2006, that motion was granted, with the Court finding the claims of the plaintiffs to be subject to arbitration. Plaintiffs asked the Court to reconsider its dismissal. That request was
denied. The plaintiffs appealed the Court’s arbitration ruling and on January 30, 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the District Court. The Company has filed with the United States Supreme
Court a petition of certiorari from the Second Circuit’s arbitration ruling. That petition is pending. The Company also filed a motion to dismiss the action filed by the Marcus Corporation, which was denied in July 2005. On
October 1, 2007, Marcus filed a motion seeking certification of a class. On March 30, 2009, the Court denied the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification without prejudice to renew upon resolution of the pending summary
judgment motion. In April 2009, the Court denied plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration of the March 30th order. In September 2008, American Express moved for summary judgment seeking dismissal of Marcus’ complaint and the plaintiff
Marcus cross-moved for partial summary judgment on the issue of liability. A decision on the summary judgment motions is pending. One case making similar allegations was filed and remains in the Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County
(filed December 2003). The Company continues to request the California Superior Court hearing the Hayama action referenced above to stay that action. To date the Hayama action has been stayed. 
83 
Table of Contents
On February 19, 2009, an amended complaint was filed in 
In Re: American Express
Merchants’ Litigation
. The amended complaint contains a single count alleging a violation of federal antitrust laws through an alleged unlawful tying of: (a) corporate, small business and/or personal charge card services; and
(b) Blue, Costco and standard GNS credit card services.” In addition, on February 19, 2009, a new complaint making the same allegations as made in the amended complaint filed in 
In Re: American Express Merchants’
Litigation
 was also filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. That new case is captioned: 
Greenporter LLC and Bar Hama LLC, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated v. American Express
Company and American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
 Proceedings in the Greenporter action and on the amended complaint filed in In Re: American Express Merchant’s Litigation have been held in abeyance pending the disposition
of the motions for summary judgment in the Marcus case. 
Beginning August 2005, the Company has been named in a number of
putative class actions alleging that the Company’s policy prohibiting merchants from imposing restrictions on the use of American Express Cards violates U.S. antitrust laws. These cases are now all consolidated in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of New York under the caption: “
In Re: American Express Anti-Steering Rules Antitrust Litigation
”. The plaintiffs’ complaint seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages. These plaintiffs have agreed
that a stay would be imposed with regard to their respective actions pending the appeal of the Court’s arbitration ruling discussed above. Given the ruling of the Second Circuit (discussed above), the stay has been lifted, and American
Express’s response to the complaint was filed in April 2009. On December 1, 2009, the United States Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation denied the plaintiffs motion to consolidate their cases with the individual suits discussed
below pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entered a scheduling order on December 28, 2009. 
In June 2008, five separate lawsuits were filed against American Express Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
New York alleging that the Company’s “anti-steering” rules in its merchant acceptance agreements violate federal antitrust laws. As alleged by the plaintiffs, these rules prevent merchants from offering consumers
incentives to use alternative forms of payments when consumers wish to use an American Express-branded card. The five suits were filed by each of Rite-Aid Corp., CVS Pharmacy Inc., Walgreen Co., Bi-Lo LLC., and H.E. Butt Grocery Company. The
plaintiff in each action seeks damages and injunctive relief. American Express filed its answer to these complaints and also filed a motion to dismiss these complaints as time barred. The Court has not yet ruled on the motion to dismiss and
entered a scheduling order on January 26, 2010. 
In July, 2009, a putative class action, captioned 
The Wild Grape v.
American Express Company, et al.
, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint challenges American Express’s policy of retaining the discount charged to certain merchants when underlying
purchases are returned to the merchant by an American Express cardmember for a refund. The complaint seeks certification of a California-only class. American Express has filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. 
In June 2009, a putative class action, captioned 
Mesi v. American Express Centurion Bank
, was filed in U.S. District Court for the
Central District of California. The complaint seeks to certify a class of American Express cardmembers with billing addresses in 16 different states “whose interest rates on their outstanding balances were retroactively increased” by the
Company. The complaint seeks, among other things, damages “in excess of $5,000,000” and unspecified injunctive relief. The complaint has been amended twice by plaintiff. On December 7, 2009, the Court ordered that the matter be stayed
pending decisions on relevant legal issues in other cases not involving American Express. 
In October 2009, a putative class
action, captioned 
Lopez, et al. v. American Express Bank, FSB and American Express Centurion Bank
, was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint seeks to certify a nationwide class of American
Express cardmembers whose interest rates were changed from fixed to variable in or around August 2009 or otherwise increases. American Express filed a motion to compel arbitration, and plaintiff has indicated they will amend their complaint to limit
the class to California residents only. 
84 
Table of Contents
In January 2006, in a matter captioned
 Hoffman, et al. v. American Express Travel
Related Services Company, Inc.
, No. 2001-02281, Superior Court of the State of California, County of Alameda, the Court certified a class action against TRS. In a case management order dated April 8, 2008, the Court defined
two classes as follows: (1) all persons who obtained American Express charge cards governed by New York law with billing addresses in California who purchased American Express’ fee based travel related insurance plans from
September 6, 1995, through February 12, 2008, and (2) all persons who obtained American Express charge cards governed by New York law with billing addresses in states other than California who purchased American Express’ fee
based travel related insurance plans from September 6, 1995, through February 12, 2008. The Court denied the plaintiff’s motion to certify a class to pursue claims on behalf of persons who held American Express credit cards
governed by Utah law. Plaintiffs allege that American Express violated California and New York law by allegedly billing customers for flight and baggage insurance that they did not receive. American Express denies the
allegations. American Express filed a motion for summary judgment asking that the case be dismissed as a matter of law. The summary judgment motion was partially granted in July 2008 when the Court dismissed certain claims against
American Express including claims for punitive damages. Certain other claims survived summary judgment. A trial on the remaining claims began in November 2008. The Company prevailed in Phase 1 of that trial with the Court ruling
that the contract between the Company and its cardmembers was not ambiguous and that the Company operated the air-flight and baggage insurance program consistent with the contract. On March 25, 2009, the Court entered a preliminary order
in the Company’s favor in Phase 2 of the trial, finding that: (1) the contract is not unconscionable; (2) the Company did not violate California consumer protection laws; and (3) the Company did not violate New York consumer
protection laws. The Court also awarded as-yet-to-be-determined costs to the Company. Plaintiff has filed a Notice of Appeal in the case. In addition, a matter making related allegations to those raised in the Hoffman case is pending in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. That matter, captioned 
Environment Law Enforcement Systems v. American Express et al.
, has effectively been stayed pending the proceedings in the Hoffman
action. Following the favorable March 25, 2009, ruling in Hoffman, the plaintiff in Environmental Law Enforcement Systems asked the Court to lift the stay and to allow plaintiff to obtain certain cardmember information. The Company
opposed that request, and the Court denied the request. Lastly, on October 30, 2008, a case making allegations similar to those raised in the Hoffman case was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida. That matter, captioned 
Kass v. American Express Card Services, Inc., American Express Company and American Express Travel Related Services
, was filed as a putative class action on behalf of American Express credit card
holders. On March 11, 2009, the Kass Court entered an order granting the joint motion of the parties to stay the case, and the Court also administratively closed the case. 
In July 2004, a purported class action captioned 
Ross, et al. v. American Express Company, American Express Travel Related Services
and American Express Centurion Bank
 was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that American Express conspired with Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club in the setting of foreign conversion
rates and in the inclusion of arbitration clauses in certain of their cardmember agreements. The suit seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages. The class is defined as “all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general-purpose
cardholders who used cards issued by any of the MDL Defendant Banks.” American Express cardholders are not part of the class. In September 2005, the Court denied the Company’s motion to dismiss the action and preliminarily
certified an injunction class of Visa and MasterCard cardholders to determine the validity of Visa’s and MasterCard’s cardmember arbitration clauses. American Express filed a motion for reconsideration with the District Court, which
motion was denied in September 2006. The Company filed an appeal from the District Court’s order denying its motion to compel arbitration. In October 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit denied the
Company’s appeal and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings. On January 22, 2010, the Court (1) certified a damage class of all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general purpose cardholders who used cards
issued by any of the alleged co-conspiring banks during the period July 22, 2000 to November 8, 2006, and who were assessed a foreign transaction fee or surcharge and who have submitted valid claims in 
In Re Currency Conversion
Antitrust Litigation.
; and (2) the Court denied American Express’ motion to amend its answer to add the affirmative defense of release. 
85 
Table of Contents
In June 2006, a putative class action captioned 
Homa v. American Express Company et
al.
 was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The case alleges, generally, misleading and fraudulent advertising of the “tiered” “up to 5 percent” cash rebates with the Blue Cash card. The
complaint initially sought certification of a nationwide class consisting of “all persons who applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present and who did not get the
rebate or rebates provided for in the offer.” On December 1, 2006, however, plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint dropping the nationwide class claims and asserting claims only on behalf of New Jersey residents who “while so
residing in New Jersey, applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present.” The plaintiff seeks unspecified damages and other unspecified relief that the Court deems
appropriate. In May 2007, the Court granted the Company’s motion to compel individual arbitration and dismissed the complaint. Plaintiff appealed that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and on
February 24, 2009, the Third Circuit reversed the decision and remanded the case back to the District Court for further proceedings. On October 22, 2009, a putative class action captioned 
Pagsolingan v. American Express Company
, et
al. was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. That case makes allegations that are largely similar to those made in Homa, except that Pagsolingan alleges multiple theories of liability and seeks to certify a
nationwide class of “[a]ll persons who applied for and received an American Express Blue Cash card during the period from September 30, 2003 to the present and who did not get the rebate or rebates provided for in the offer.”

In January 2009, the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding to resolve claims raised in a putative class action
captioned 
Kaufman v. American Express Travel Related Services
, pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Since such time, the parties have entered into a settlement agreement that was submitted to the
Court for preliminary approval, and a final ruling on preliminary approval remains pending. The allegations in Kaufman relate primarily to monthly service fee charges, with the critical claim being that the Company’s gift card product violates
consumer protection statutes because consumers allegedly have difficulty spending small residual amounts on the gift cards prior to the imposition of monthly service fees. The proposed Settlement Class consists of “All purchasers, recipients
and holders of all gift cards issued by American Express from January 1, 2002 through the date of preliminary approval of the Settlement, including without limitation, gift cards sold at physical retail locations, via the internet, or through
mall co-branded programs.” Under the terms of the proposed settlement, in addition to certain non-monetary relief, the Company would pay $3 million into a settlement fund. Members of the settlement class would then be entitled to submit claims
against the settlement fund to receive refunds of certain gift card fees, and any monies remaining in the settlement fund after payment of all claims would be paid to charity. In addition, the Company would make available to the settlement class for
a period of time the opportunity to buy gift cards with no purchase fee. Finally, the Company would be responsible for paying class counsel’s reasonable fees and expenses and certain expenses of administering the class settlement. The Company
is also a defendant in two other putative class actions making allegations similar to those made in Kaufman: 
Goodman v. American Express Travel Related Services
, pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New
York, and 
Jarratt v. American Express Company
, filed in California state court in San Diego. If the Kaufman settlement ultimately receives final approval, all related gift cards claims and suits would also be released. 
International Matters 
In
May 2006, in a matter captioned 
Marcotte v. Bank of Montreal et al.
, filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in April 2003) the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Bank
of Montreal, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Scotiabank, National Bank of Canada, Laurentian Bank of Canada and Citibank Canada. The action alleges that conversion commissions made on foreign currency
transactions are credit charges under the Quebec Consumer Protection Act (the QCPA) and cannot be charged prior to the 21-day grace period under the QCPA. The class includes all persons holding a credit card issued by one of the defendants to
whom fees were charged since April 17, 2000, for transactions made in foreign currency before expiration of the period of 21 days following the statement of account. The class claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversions,

86 
Table of Contents

CDN$400 per class member for trouble, inconvenience and punitive damages, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the 
Marcotte
 action commenced in September 2008 and was
completed in November. The Court rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of CDN$7.1 million plus interest on the QCPA claims and individual claims to be made
on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$21.52 per cardmember. The judgment has been appealed by all banks, including Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is expected to be heard by the Quebec
Court of Appeal in the fall of 2011. 
In November 2006, in a matter captioned 
Sylvan Adams v. Amex Bank of Canada

filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in November 2004), the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges that prior to December 2003, Amex Bank of Canada
charged a foreign currency conversion commission on transactions to purchase goods and services in currencies other than Canadian dollars and failed to disclose the commissions in monthly billing statements or solicitations directed to prospective
cardmembers. The class, consisting of all Cardmembers in Quebec that purchased goods or services in a foreign currency prior to December 2003, claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversion commissions, CDN$1,000 in punitive
damages per class member, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the 
Adams
 action commenced, and was completed, in December 2008 after the conclusion of the trial in the 
Marcotte
 action. The Court rendered a judgment in
favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of CDN$11.2 million plus interest on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$2.2
million. The judgment has been appealed by Amex Bank of Canada. The appeal is expected to be heard by the Quebec Court of Appeal in the fall of 2011. 
In November 2006, in a matter captioned 
Option Consommateurs and Benoit Fortin v. Amex Bank of Canada et al.
 filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in July
2003), the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Citibank Canada, MBNA Canada, Diners Club International, Capital One and Royal Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges that the defendants have violated the Quebec Consumer
Protection Act (“QCPA”) by imposing finance charges on credit card transactions prior to 21 days following the receipt of the statement containing the charge. It is alleged that the QCPA provisions which require a 21-day grace period prior
to imposing finance charges applies to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec and that finance charges imposed prior to this grace period violate the Act. The class seeks reimbursement of all finance charges imposed in violation of the
Act, CDN$200 in punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs. 
In May 2005, Amex Bank of Canada was added as
a defendant to a motion to authorize a class action captioned 
Option Consommateurs and Joel-Christian St-Pierre v. Bank of Montreal et al.
 filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Quebec. The motion, which also names as defendants
Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank, HSBC Bank of Canada, among others, alleges that the defendants violated QCPA by imposing finance charges on credit card transactions prior to 21 days following the receipt of the statement containing the
charge. It is alleged that the QCPA provisions, which require a 21-day grace period prior to imposing finance charges, applies to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec and that finance charges imposed prior to this grace period
violate the QCPA. The proposed class seeks reimbursement of all finance charges imposed in violation of the QCPA, CDN$100 in punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs. 
Other Matters 
During the
last few years as regulatory interest in credit card network pricing to merchants and related issues has increased, the Company has responded to many inquiries from banking and competition authorities throughout the world. On October 14, 2008,
the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”), dated October 10, 2008, from the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”). A CID is a request for information in the course of a civil
investigation and does not constitute the commencement of legal

87 
Table of Contents

proceedings. The DOJ is permitted by statute to issue a CID to anyone whom it believes may have information relevant to an investigation. The receipt of a CID does not presuppose that
there is probable cause to believe that a violation of the antitrust laws has occurred or that a formal complaint ultimately will be filed. The DOJ has requested the production of documents and information regarding the Company’s policies
relating to merchant surcharging and its “anti-steering” policies that prohibit merchants from discriminating against the Card in favor of other forms of payment. The Company is cooperating with the DOJ’s request. The Company has also
received a similar civil investigative demand from the attorney general of the state of Ohio. These investigations are ongoing. 
ITEM 4.
SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 
We did not submit any matters to a vote of our security holders during the last quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. 
88 
Table of Contents
PART II 
ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
(a) Our common stock trades principally on The New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol AXP. As of December 31, 2009, we had
41,273 common shareholders of record. You can find price and dividend information concerning our common stock in Note 27 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which can be found on page 127 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which note is incorporated herein by reference. For information on dividend restrictions, please see “Financial Review—Share Repurchases and Dividends” on page 40 and Note 23 on page 119 of our 2009 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. You can find information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans under the captions “Executive Compensation—Share Plans,” and
“Executive Compensation—Equity Compensation Plan Information” to be contained in the Company’s definitive 2010 proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is scheduled to be held on April 26, 2010. The
information to be found under such captions is incorporated herein by reference. Our definitive 2010 proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders is expected to be filed with the SEC in March 2010 (and, in any event, not later than
120 days after the close of our most recently completed fiscal year). 
Under the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program
pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, we announced on January 9, 2009, the receipt of aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion from the Treasury in exchange for the sale to the Treasury of (i) 3,388,890 shares of
our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $1.66 2/3 per share (the “Series A Preferred Stock”), having a liquidation preference per share equal to $1,000 and (ii) a ten-year warrant
(the “Warrant”) to purchase up to 24,264,129 shares of our common shares at an initial per share exercise price of $20.95 per share. We repurchased all of the Series A Preferred Stock in June 2009 and repurchased the Warrant in July
2009. For additional information about these transactions, please see our Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on January 9, 2009, June 17, 2009 and July 29, 2009. 
(b) Not applicable. 
(c) The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases of our common stock made by or on behalf of the Company during the quarter ended December 31, 2009. 
Period
Total Number
of Shares
Purchased
Average Price
Paid Per Share
Total Number of
Shares
Purchased as
Part of Publicly
Announced
Plans or
Programs (3)
Maximum
Number of Shares
that May Yet Be
Purchased Under
the Plans or
Programs
October 1-31, 2009
    Repurchase program (1)
    Employee transactions (2)
456
33.39
N/A
100,018,968
N/A
November 1-30, 2009
    Repurchase program (1)
    Employee transactions (2)
20,254
34.84
N/A
100,018,968
N/A
December 1-31, 2009
    Repurchase program (1)
    Employee transactions (2)
433,920
41.31
N/A
100,018,968
N/A
Total
    Repurchase program (1)
    Employee transactions (2)
454,630
41.01
N/A
100,018,968
N/A
89 
Table of Contents
(1)
At December 31, 2009, there are approximately 100 million shares of common stock remaining under Board authorization. Such authorization does not have an
expiration date, and at present, there is no intention to modify or otherwise rescind such authorization. Since September 1994, the Company has acquired 670 million shares under various Board authorizations to repurchase up to an aggregate of
770 million shares of common stock, including purchases made under agreements with third parties. 
(2)
Includes: (a) shares delivered by or deducted from holders of employee stock options who exercised options (granted under the Company’s incentive compensation
plans) in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation of such holders and (b) restricted shares withheld (under the terms of grants under the Company’s incentive compensation plans) to offset tax withholding
obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares. The Company’s incentive compensation plans provide that the value of the shares delivered or attested to, or withheld, shall be the average of the high and low price of the
Company’s common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs. 
(3)
Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit
plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the Company deems appropriate. 
ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
The “Consolidated Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data” appearing on page 128 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The information set forth under the heading “Financial Review” appearing on pages 18-65 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
The information set forth under the heading “Risk Management” appearing on pages 47-49 and in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 98-101 of our 2009 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
The “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP), the “Consolidated Financial Statements” and the “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” appearing on pages 67-127 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
Not applicable. 
ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is
defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 
90 
Table of Contents
There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the Company’s fourth quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting. 
“Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,” which sets forth
management’s evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, and the “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, appearing on pages 66 and 67 of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION 
Not
applicable. 
91 
Table of Contents
PART III 
ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE; EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION; SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS; CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
We expect to
file with the SEC, in March 2010 (and, in any event, not later than 120 days after the close of our last fiscal year), a definitive proxy statement, pursuant to SEC Regulation 14A in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
April 26, 2010, which involves the election of directors. The following information to be included in such proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
information included under the caption “Corporate Governance—Summary of the Company’s Corporate Governance Principles—Independence
of Directors” 
information included in the table under the caption “Corporate Governance—Membership on Board Committees” 
information under the captions “Corporate Governance—Compensation and Benefits Committee—Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation” and “Compensation Committee Report” 
information included under the caption “Corporate Governance—Audit and Risk Committee” 
information included under the caption “Compensation of Directors” 
information included under the caption “Ownership of Our Common Shares” 
information included under the caption “Item 1—Election of Directors” 
information included under the caption “Executive Compensation” 
information under the caption “Certain Relationships and Transactions” 
information under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.” 
In addition, the information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K may be found under the caption
“Executive Officers of the Company” in this Report. 
We have adopted a set of Corporate Governance Principles, which
together with the charters of the four standing committees of the Board of Directors (Audit; Compensation and Benefits; Nominating and Governance; and Public Responsibility), our Code of Conduct (which constitutes the Company’s code of ethics),
and the Code of Business Conduct for the Members of the Board of Directors, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. A complete copy of our Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of each of the Board committees, the Code of
Conduct (which applies not only to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Comptroller, but also to all other employees of the Company) and the Code of Business Conduct for the Members of the Board of Directors may be found by
clicking on the “Corporate Governance” link found on our Investor Relations Web site at http://ir.americanexpress.com. You may also access our Investor Relations Web site through the Company’s main Web site at www.americanexpress.com
by clicking on the “About American Express” link, which is located at the bottom of the Company’s homepage. (Information from such sites is not incorporated by reference into this Report.) You may also obtain free copies of these
materials by writing to our Secretary at the Company’s headquarters. 
ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
The information set forth under the heading “Item 2—Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm—Audit Fees;” “—Audit-Related
Fees;” “—Tax Fees;” “—All Other Fees;” and “—Policy on Pre-Approval of Services Provided by Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,” which will appear in the Company’s definitive proxy
statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 26, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 
92 
Table of Contents
PART IV 
ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
(a) 
1. 
Financial Statements
The financial statements filed as a part of this report are listed on page F-1 hereof under “Index to Financial Statements,” which
is incorporated herein by reference. 
2. 
Financial Statement Schedules
All schedules are omitted since the required information is either not applicable, not deemed material, or is shown in the respective
financial statements or in notes thereto. 
3. 
Exhibits
The list of exhibits required to be filed as exhibits to this report are listed on pages E-1 through E-5 hereof under “Exhibit
Index,” which is incorporated herein by reference. 
93 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY
February 25, 2010
/s/    D
ANIEL
 T.
H
ENRY        
Daniel T. Henry
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial
Officer
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 
S
/    K
ENNETH
 I.
C
HENAULT        
Kenneth I. Chenault
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and
Director
S
/    J
AN

L
ESCHLY        
Jan Leschly
Director
S
/    D
ANIEL
 T.
H
ENRY        
Daniel T. Henry
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
S
/    R
ICHARD
 C.
L
EVIN        
Richard C. Levin
Director
S
/    J
OAN
 C.
A
MBLE        
Joan C. Amble
Executive Vice President and
Comptroller
S
/    R
ICHARD
 A.
M
C
G
INN        
Richard A. McGinn
Director
S
/    D
ANIEL
 F.
A
KERSON        
Daniel F. Akerson
Director
S
/    E
DWARD
 D.
M
ILLER        
Edward D. Miller
Director
S
/    C
HARLENE

B
ARSHEFSKY        
Charlene Barshefsky
Director
S
/    S
TEVEN
 S
R
EINEMUND        
Steven S Reinemund
Director
S
/    U
RSULA
 M.
B
URNS        
Ursula M. Burns
Director
S
/    R
OBERT
 D.
W
ALTER        
Robert D. Walter
Director
S
/    P
ETER

C
HERNIN        
Peter Chernin
Director
S
/    R
ONALD
 A.
W
ILLIAMS        
Ronald A. Williams
Director
February 25, 2010 
94 
Table of Contents
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(Items 15(a)(1) and 15(a)(2) of Form 10-K) 
Form 10-K
Annual Report
to Shareholders
(Page)
American Express Company and Subsidiaries:
Data incorporated by reference from 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders:
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting
66
Report of independent registered public accounting firm (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP)
67
Consolidated statements of income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009
69
Consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008
70
Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009
71
Consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2009
72
Notes to consolidated financial statements
73-128
Consent of independent registered public accounting firm
F-2
Schedules:
All schedules for American Express Company and subsidiaries have been omitted since the required
information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the respective financial statements or notes thereto. Refer to Notes 4, 5 and 26 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders for information on accounts receivable reserves, loan reserves and condensed financial information of the Parent Company Only, respectively. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements of American Express Company (including the report of independent registered public accounting firm) listed in the above index, which are included in our 2009 Annual
Report to Shareholders, are hereby incorporated by reference. With the exception of the pages listed in the above index, unless otherwise incorporated by reference elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders
is not to be deemed filed as part of this report. 
F-1 
Table of Contents
Exhibit 23.1 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 No. 2-46918, No. 2-59230, No. 2-64285, No. 2-73954, No. 2-89680, No. 33-01771, No. 33-02980, No. 33-28721,
No. 33-33552, No. 33-36442, No. 33-48629, No. 33-62124, No. 33-65008, No. 33-53801, No. 333-12683, No. 333-41779, No. 333-52699, No. 333-73111, No. 333-38238, No. 333-98479; and
No. 333-142710; Form S-3 No. 2-89469, No. 33-43268, No. 33-50997, No. 333-32525, No. 333-45445, No. 333-47085, No. 333-55761, No. 333-51828, No. 333-113768, No. 333-117835,
No. 333-138032 and 333-162791) of American Express Company of our report dated February 25, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2009
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 25, 2010
F-2 
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report. The exhibit numbers preceded by an asterisk (*) indicate exhibits
electronically filed herewith. All other exhibit numbers indicate exhibits previously filed and are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits numbered 10.1 through 10.28, 10.30 through 10.35, 10.39, 10.40, 10.45 and 10.46 are management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. 
    3.1
Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, dated July 31, 1997
(Commission File No. 333-32525)).
    3.2
Company’s Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission
File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 2000).
    3.3
Company’s Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
(Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 2008).
    3.4
Company’s Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission
File No. 1-7657), dated January 7, 2009 (filed January 9, 2009)).
    3.5
Company’s By-Laws, as amended through February 23, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657)
for the year ended December 31, 2008).
    4.1
The instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Company and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K. The Company hereby agrees to furnish copies of these instruments to the SEC upon request.
    4.2
Warrant to Purchase Common Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657), dated January 7, 2009
(filed January 9, 2009)).
    4.3
Form of Global Note for $1,250,000,000 principal amount of 7.25% Notes due May 20, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
(Commission File No. 1-7657) dated May 19, 2009).
    4.4
Form of Global Note for $1,750,000,000 principal amount of 8.125% Notes due May 20, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
(Commission File No. 1-7657) dated May 19, 2009).
  10.1
American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended through July 25, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2005).
  10.2
American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan Master Agreement, dated April 27, 1998 (for awards made prior to January 22, 2007) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 2004).
  10.3
Amendment of American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan Master Agreement, dated April 27, 1998 (for awards made prior to January 22, 2007) (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 2000).
  10.4
American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan Master Agreement, dated January 22, 2007 (for awards made on or after such date) (as amended and restated effective January
1, 2009) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
E-1 
Table of Contents
  10.5
Form of award agreement for executive officers in connection with Portfolio Grants under the American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (for awards made
after January 22, 2007) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657), dated January 22, 2007 (filed January 26, 2007)).
  10.6
Section 409A Amendments to form of award agreement for Portfolio Grants made under the American Express Company 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (for awards made after
January 22, 2007) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.7
American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657),
dated April 23, 2007 (filed April 27, 2007)).
  10.8
American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan Master Agreement (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.9
Form of award agreement for executive officers in connection with Portfolio Grants under the American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.13 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2007).
  10.10
Section 409A Amendments to form of award agreement for Portfolio Grants made under the American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.10 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.11
Form of award agreement for executive officers in connection with Performance Grant awards (a/k/a Incentive Awards) under the American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation
Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.12
Description of Compensation Payable to Non-Management Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No.
1-7657), dated November 21, 2005 (filed January 13, 2006)).
  10.13
American Express Company Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors and Advisors, as amended through January 1, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.14
American Express Company 2007 Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program Document (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission
File No. 1-7657), dated November 20, 2006 (filed November 22, 2006)).
  10.15
Description of amendments to 1994 – 2006 Pay-for-Performance Deferral Programs (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2006).
  10.16
American Express Company 2006 Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program Guide (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File
No. 1-7657), dated November 21, 2005 (filed November 23, 2005)).
  10.17
American Express Company 2005 Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program Guide (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission
File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2004).
E-2 
Table of Contents
  10.18
Description of American Express Company Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission
File No. l-7657), dated November 22, 2004 (filed January 28, 2005)).
  10.19
Amendment to the Pre-2008 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plans of American Express Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 of the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.20
American Express Company Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 1988).
  10.21
Certificate of Amendment of the American Express Company Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors dated March 21, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 1995).
  10.22
American Express Key Executive Life Insurance Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No.
1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991).
  10.23
Amendment to American Express Company Key Executive Life Insurance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission
File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).
  10.24
Amendment to American Express Company Key Executive Life Insurance Plan, effective as of January 22, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2006).
  10.25
American Express Key Employee Charitable Award Program for Education (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File
No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 1990).
  10.26
American Express Directors’ Charitable Award Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657)
for the year ended December 31, 1990).
  10.27
American Express Company Salary/Bonus Deferral Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
year ended December 31, 1988).
  10.28
Amendment to American Express Company Salary/Bonus Deferral Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No.
1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).
  10.29
Tax Allocation Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, between Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).
  10.30
American Express Company 1993 Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
(Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 2000).
  10.31
American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan, effective January 1, 1994 (as amended and restated through January 1, 2009) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
E-3 
Table of Contents
  10.32
Amendments of (i) the American Express Supplemental Retirement Plan, (ii) the American Express Salary/Bonus Deferral Plan and (iii) the American Express Key Executive Life Insurance
Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 1997).
  10.33
American Express Supplemental Retirement Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 of the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.34
American Express Directors’ Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, dated December 9, 1997 (Commission
File No. 333-41779)).
  10.35
American Express Annual Incentive Award Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 of the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.36
Agreement dated February 27, 1995 between the Company and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 1994).
  10.37
Agreement dated July 20, 1995 between the Company and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and its subsidiaries (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 1995).
  10.38
Amendment dated September 8, 2000 to the agreement dated February 27, 1995 between the Company and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) dated January 22, 2001).
  10.39
Description of a special grant of a stock option and restricted stock award to Kenneth I. Chenault, the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended June 30, 1999).
  10.40
American Express Company 2003 Share Equivalent Unit Plan for Directors, as amended and restated, effective January 1, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 of the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the year ended December 31, 2008).
  10.41
Separation and Distribution Agreement between American Express Company and Ameriprise Financial, Inc., dated August 24, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657), dated August 24, 2005 (filed August 30, 2005)).
  10.42
Employee Benefits Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2005, by and between American Express Company and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657), dated October 6, 2005).
  10.43
Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of September 30, 2005, by and between American Express Company and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657), dated October 6, 2005).
  10.44
Letter Agreement, dated January 9, 2009, between American Express Company and the United States Department of the Treasury, which includes the Securities Purchase
Agreement–Standard Terms attached thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission File No. 1-7657), dated January 7, 2009 (filed January 9, 2009)).
  10.45
Form of award agreement for executive officers in connection with Portfolio Grant 2009-2010 under the American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 2009).
E-4 
Table of Contents
  10.46
Letter Agreement, dated October 2, 2009, between the Company and Alfred F. Kelly, Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
(Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 2009).
*12
Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
*13
Portions of the Company’s 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders that are incorporated herein by reference.
*21
Subsidiaries of the Company.
*23.1
Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (contained on page F-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).
*31.1
Certification of Kenneth I. Chenault, Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
*31.2
Certification of Daniel T. Henry, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
*32.1
Certification of Kenneth I. Chenault, Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel T. Henry, Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101.INS
101.SCH
101.CAL
101.DEF
101.LAB
101.PRE
XBRL Instance Document**
XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Schema Document**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.**
XBRL
Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document**
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document**
These interactive data files are furnished and deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections. 
E-5 
Table of Contents
UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C.
20549 
FORM 10-K 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009
Commission File No. 1-7657
American Express
Company 
(Exact name of Company as specified in charter) 
EXHIBITS 
EX-12

2

dex12.htm

COMPUTATION IN SUPPORT OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EXHIBIT 12 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
COMPUTATION IN SUPPORT OF
RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
(Dollars in Millions) 
Year Ended
December 31,
Years Ended December 31,
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
Earnings:
Pretax income from continuing operations
2,841
3,581
5,694
5,152
3,979
Interest expense
2,208
3,628
4,525
3,258
2,415
Other adjustments
129
144
143
139
150
Total earnings (a)
5,178
7,353
10,362
8,549
6,544
Fixed charges:
Interest expense
2,208
3,628
4,525
3,258
2,415
Other adjustments
121
114
106
106
151
Total fixed charges (b)
2,329
3,742
4,631
3,364
2,566
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (a/b)
2.22
1.96
2.24
2.54
2.55
Included in interest
expense in the above computation is interest expense related to the cardmember lending activities, international banking operations, and charge card and other activities in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Interest expense does not include
interest on liabilities recorded under GAAP governing accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. The Company’s policy is to classify such interest in income tax provision in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
For purposes of the “earnings” computation, “other adjustments” include adding the amortization of capitalized interest,
the net loss of affiliates accounted for under the equity method whose debt is not guaranteed by the Company, the minority interest in the earnings of majority-owned subsidiaries with fixed charges, and the interest component of rental expense, and
subtracting undistributed net income of affiliates accounted for under the equity method. 
For purposes of the “fixed
charges” computation, “other adjustments” include capitalized interest costs and the interest component of rental expense. 
EX-13

3

dex13.htm

PORTIONS OF THE COMPANY'S 2009 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Table of Contents
Exhibit 13 
2009 FINANCIAL RESULTS 
18
FINANCIAL REVIEW
66
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
67
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
68
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
69
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
128
CONSOLIDATED FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
129
COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR TOTAL RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
The
financial section of American Express Company’s (the Company) Annual Report consists of this Financial Review, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion is designed to
provide perspective and understanding regarding the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Certain key terms are defined in the Glossary of Selected Terminology, which begins on page 61. 
This Financial Review and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless
otherwise noted. 
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 
American Express is a global service company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The Company’s principal products
and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses around the world. The Company’s range of products and services include: 
charge and credit card products; 
expense management products and services; 
consumer and business travel services; 
stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products; 
network services for the Company’s network partners; 
merchant acquisition and processing, point-of-sale, servicing and settlement and marketing products and services for merchants; and

fee services, including market and trend analyses along with related consulting services and customer loyalty and rewards programs.

The Company’s products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers, small
businesses, middle-market companies, and large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels including direct mail, on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party sales forces, and direct response advertising.

The Company’s products and services generate the following types of revenue for the Company: 
Discount revenue, which is the Company’s largest revenue source, represents fees charged to merchants when cardmembers use their cards to purchase
goods and services on the Company’s network; 
Net card fees, which represent revenue earned for annual charge card memberships; 
Travel commissions and fees, which are earned by charging a transaction or management fee for airline or other travel-related transactions;

Other commissions and fees, which are earned on foreign exchange conversions and card-related fees and assessments; 
Securitization income, net, which is the net earnings related to cardmember loans financed through securitization activities;

Other revenue, which represents insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other insurance programs, revenues arising from contracts with
Global Network Services’ (GNS) partners (including royalties and signing fees), publishing revenues, and other miscellaneous revenue and fees; and 
Interest and fees on loans, which principally represents interest income earned on outstanding balances, and card fees related to the cardmember
lending portfolio. 
In addition to funding and operating costs associated with these types of revenue, other major expense
categories are related to marketing and reward programs that add new cardmembers and promote cardmember loyalty and spending, and provisions for anticipated cardmember credit and fraud losses. 
In 2009, to better position the Company to grow its traditional businesses, and to develop new revenue categories and emerging payments, the
Company implemented the following organizational changes: 
Grouped the Company’s global consumer and small business card-issuing, merchant and network businesses under the senior leadership of the Vice
Chairman of American Express, which will enable the Company to sharpen its focus on its strongest growth opportunities, while maintaining appropriate confidentiality protections; 
The Company is creating the Enterprise Growth Group, which will focus exclusively on generating new sources of fee revenue from existing assets and
advancing the Company’s efforts in emerging payments; 
Formed a new Global Services Group under the leadership of the Company’s Group President and Chief Information Officer, which unites the
Company’s U.S. and international cardmember servicing organizations, as well as most processing and support functions across the Company including, among others, technology support and certain key processing functions in areas such as finance
and human resources. With this change to Global Services, the Company is organizing support functions by process rather than business unit, which the Company expects will streamline costs, reduce duplication of work, better integrate skills and
expertise, and improve customer

18 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

service. The expenses that now fall within Global Services account for just under half of the Company’s consolidated operating expense. This organization has been tasked with generating an
annualized level of gross expense savings of approximately $500 million by 2012. It is expected that a portion of any such savings would be reinvested in growth initiatives; and 
Also, as part of the organizational changes, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer is now working directly with the leaders of the Global
Commercial Card and Global Travel Services groups on overall strategies to capitalize on Business-to-Business growth opportunities. 
Historically, the Company has sought to achieve a number of financial targets, on average and over time: 
Revenues net of interest expense growth of at least 8 percent; 
Earnings per share (EPS) growth of 12 to 15 percent; and 
Return on average equity (ROE) of 33 to 36 percent. 
In addition, assuming achievement of such financial targets, the Company has sought to return at least 65 percent of the capital it generates to shareholders as a dividend or through the repurchase of
common stock. 
The Company met or exceeded these targets for most of the past decade. However, during 2008 and 2009, its
performance fell short of the targets due to the effects of the continuing global economic downturn. As long as these difficult conditions persist, it is unlikely that the Company will achieve all of its on average and over time financial
objectives. The Company’s share repurchase program was suspended in 2008 and, as a result, the amount of capital generated that is returned to shareholders has been and will likely continue to be below the levels achieved earlier in the decade.

The Company believes it will be positioned, over the long term, to generate revenue and earnings growth in line with its
historical target levels. However, evolving market, regulatory and rating agency expectations will likely cause the Company, as well as other financial institutions, to maintain in future years a higher level of capital than they would have
historically maintained. These higher capital requirements would in turn lead, all other things being equal, to lower future ROE than the Company has historically targeted. While the Company is not establishing a new target at this time, it
currently believes that it will ultimately be positioned to deliver a ROE in excess of 20 percent over time. As the capital requirements for financial institutions become clearer, management will have greater visibility into this area. At that time,
the Company will provide updated long-term ROE and capital distribution targets. 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company became a bank
holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and the Federal Reserve Board (Federal Reserve) became the Company’s primary federal regulator. As such, the Company is subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulations, policies and
minimum capital standards. 
CURRENT ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT/OUTLOOK 
2009 was a challenging year characterized by a weak economy, frozen credit markets in the first half of the year and high credit losses industry wide. In the first two quarters, the Company’s
spending and cardmember loan balances declined by double digits as compared to the corresponding periods in 2008 and credit metrics (e.g. past due and write-off rates) peaked at historically high levels. In the third quarter, the Company’s
credit actions began to positively impact past due and write-off rates, and spending declines began to become less severe. The fourth quarter showed greater improvement. 
In the fourth quarter of 2009 the year-over-year growth rate in cardmember spending volumes was positive for the first time since the third quarter of 2008, benefiting from both easier comparisons to
year-ago billings as well as higher levels of spending. Improvements in billed business trends were experienced in all business lines in the fourth quarter. In addition, for the first time during the year, the growth rate in both the number of card
transactions and average transaction size were positive in the fourth quarter as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. Despite these favorable trends, the Company expects the global economy to continue to recover gradually and the resulting
environment to be characterized by billings growth that is more modest than it experienced before the recession, as consumers and businesses remain cautious about their spending. 
The favorable credit trends experienced in the third quarter of 2009 continued to show overall improvement in the fourth quarter. Charge card
write-off rates and past-due trends in the United States continued to improve significantly during the fourth quarter, reaching historic lows by the end of the year and contributing to lower provision levels. Worldwide lending write-off rates also
continued to decline in the fourth quarter, improving for the second quarter in a row. This was driven in part by a broad range of credit and business actions, such as enhanced credit and collection policies and practices. Lending past-due trends
also continued to improve in the fourth quarter. If past-due trends, recoveries and bankruptcies remain stable, the Company expects managed U.S. lending write-offs in the first quarter of 2010 to be similar to those in the fourth quarter of 2009,
and

19 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

further expects these write-offs in the second quarter of 2010 to be lower than the first quarter.
1
In 2010, the Company intends to invest a substantial portion of expected benefits from its improving credit performance. The Company will focus on launching new products and services, improving long-term margins with investments in
infrastructure, and driving growth for the moderate to long-term. As the Company continues to scale back its issuance of proprietary lending cards and targets more premium cards, the Company’s priority will be to drive billed business and
average spend per card rather than achieve broad growth in cards-in-force. 
The Company’s net interest yield in 2009 was
impacted by re-pricing actions, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act (CARD Act), and changing consumer behavior. Going forward, these same dynamics will apply, with more impact from the CARD Act expected in the future. As
such, the Company expects net interest yields to trend down closer to historic levels over time. 
The Company expects its 2010
EPS growth to be well above its long-term EPS target of 12 percent to 15 percent. 
REENGINEERING INITIATIVES 
In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company announced various reengineering initiatives which were expected to produce cost benefits of approximately $1.8
billion in 2009 versus the previously anticipated spending levels. These initiatives included: reducing staffing levels and compensation expenses (expected benefits of $700 million in 2009), reducing certain operating costs (expected benefit of $125
million in 2009) and scaling back investment spending (expected benefit of $1.0 billion in 2009). The Company began the execution and implementation of these initiatives in the fourth quarter of 2008, and as such, recorded a fourth quarter of 2008
restructuring charge of $404 million ($262 million after-tax) in continuing operations, primarily associated with severance and other costs related to the elimination of approximately 7,000 positions, in addition to $17 million ($11 million
after-tax) of other net reengineering costs. 
In the second quarter of 2009, the Company announced another phase of
reengineering initiatives which were 
1
The “managed basis” presentation includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the
“owned basis” (GAAP) information and the “managed basis” information is attributable to the effects of securitized activities. The Company is not presenting estimates of owned net write-off rates comparable to the managed data
above because the owned net write-off rates are not determinable at this time. For further discussion of the Company’s owned and managed basis presentation, refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services in the section captioned
“Differences Between GAAP and Managed Presentations”. 

expected to produce incremental cost benefits of approximately $800 million in 2009. These initiatives included: reducing staffing levels and compensation expenses (expected benefit of $175
million in 2009), scaling back investment spending on marketing and business development (expected benefit of $500 million in 2009) and cutting certain professional services, travel and general overhead expenses (expected benefit of $125 million in
2009). The Company began the implementation of these initiatives in the second quarter of 2009, and as such, recorded a second quarter 2009 net reengineering charge of $182 million ($118 million after-tax) in continuing operations, primarily
associated with severance and other costs related to the elimination of approximately 4,000 positions. Cumulatively, through these reengineering initiatives, the Company expected to eliminate approximately 11,000 positions, which accounted for
approximately 17 percent of its global workforce as of September 30, 2008. 
As the Company has previously indicated,
business results in the second half of 2009 have been stronger than initially forecasted primarily due to favorable credit and business trends. The benefits from these favorable trends have been utilized to increase spending on marketing and other
business-building initiatives during the latter part of 2009. These increased investments have in turn reduced the targeted savings from our reengineering initiatives of approximately $2.6 billion described above. These favorable trends also drove
other business changes and modifications to previously planned reengineering initiatives which have resulted in a lower level of employee staff reductions and higher employee redeployment to other positions in the Company, further reducing targeted
savings. As of December 31, 2009, employee count has declined 8,200 or 12 percent since September 30, 2008 primarily due to the above initiatives. 
ACQUISITIONS 
On January 15, 2010, the Company purchased Revolution Money, a
provider of secure person-to-person payment services through an internet based platform, for approximately $300 million. Revolution Money offers online person-to-person payment accounts that are FDIC insured and suited for social and instant
messaging networks and offers the RevolutionCard, a general-use PIN-based card with enhanced security. The Company believes that Revolution Money’s assets and expertise complement both its existing payments and processing capabilities, and also
provides it with an innovative technology platform which can help extend the Company’s leadership beyond the traditional payments arena. 
On March 28, 2008, the Company purchased Corporate Payment Services (CPS), General Electric Company’s commercial card and corporate purchasing business unit. The Company acquired $2.2 billion in
assets and assumed $63 million in liabilities. The total cash consideration of $2.3

20 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

billion paid by the Company consisted of the contractual purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion plus the repayment of CPS’ $1.2 billion in outstanding debt as of the acquisition date.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
For the applicable periods, the operating results, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of American Express Bank Ltd. (AEB), which was sold to Standard Chartered PLC (Standard Chartered) in 2008, and American Express International Deposit
Company (AEIDC), which was sold to Standard Chartered in the third quarter of 2009, have been removed from the Corporate & Other segment and reported separately within the discontinued operations captions on the Company’s Consolidated
Financial Statements. 
Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s
discontinued operations. 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY 
A summary of the Company’s recent financial performance follows: 
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions, except per share
amounts and ratio data)
2009
2008
Percent
Decrease
Total revenues net of interest expense
24,523
28,365
(14
Provisions for losses
5,313
5,798
(8
Expenses
16,369
18,986
(14
Income from continuing operations
2,137
2,871
(26
Net income
2,130
2,699
(21
Earnings per common share from continuing operations — diluted
(a)(b)
1.54
2.47
(38
Earnings per common share — diluted
(a)
1.54
2.32
(34
Return on average equity
(c)
14.6
22.3
Return on average tangible common equity
(d)
17.6
28.0
(a)
Earnings per common share from continuing operations – diluted and Earnings per common share – diluted were both reduced by the impact of (i) accelerated
preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related
accretion of $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $22 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

(b)
Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities requires that
restricted stock awards be included in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for all prior periods presented. Refer to Note 18 to the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(c)
ROE is calculated by dividing (i) net income ($2.1 billion and $2.7 billion for 2009 and 2008, respectively), by (ii) average total shareholders’ equity
($14.6 billion and $12.1 billion for 2009 and 2008, respectively). 
(d)
Return on average tangible common equity is computed in the same manner as ROE except the computation of average tangible common shareholders’ equity (TCE)
excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of $3.0 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company believes that return on average tangible common equity is a useful measure of profitability of its
business. 
See Consolidated Results of Operations, beginning on page 31, for discussion of the Company’s results.

The Company follows U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition to information provided on a GAAP basis,
the Company discloses certain data on a “managed basis”. This information, which should be read only as a supplement to GAAP information, assumes, in the Consolidated Selected Statistical Information and U.S. Card Services (USCS) segment,
there have been no cardmember loans securitization transactions. These managed basis adjustments, and management’s rationale for such presentation, are discussed further in the USCS section below under “Differences between GAAP and Managed
Basis Presentation”. 
Certain of the statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this discussion. 
21 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies referenced, as applicable, to
other notes. The following chart provides information about five critical accounting policies that are important to the Consolidated Financial Statements and that require significant management assumptions and judgments. 
RESERVES FOR CARDMEMBER LOSSES 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
Reserves for cardmember losses relating to cardmember loans and receivables represent management’s best estimate of the losses inherent
in the Company’s outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables.
Reserves for cardmember loans and receivables losses are primarily based upon models that
analyze portfolio performance and reflect management’s judgment regarding overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management
considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure,
industry or geographic regions. In addition, management adjusts the reserves for losses for other external environmental factors including leading economic and market indicators such as the unemployment rate, Gross Domestic Product (GDP), home price
indices, non-farm payrolls, personal consumption expenditures index, consumer confidence index, purchasing manager’s index, bankruptcy filings, and the legal and regulatory environment. Generally, due to the short-term nature of cardmember
receivables, the impact of the other external environmental factors on the inherent losses within the cardmember receivable portfolio is not significant. As part of this evaluation process, management also considers various reserve coverage metrics,
such as reserves as a percentage of past-due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember loans and receivables, and net write-off coverage.
Cardmember loans and receivables are written off when management deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the number of days past due. Cardmember loans and USCS cardmember
receivables are generally written off when
(continued on next page)
To the extent historical credit experience updated for emerging market trends in credit are not
indicative of future performance, actual losses could differ significantly from management’s judgments and expectations, resulting in either higher or lower future provisions for losses, as applicable.
As of December 31, 2009, an increase in write-offs equivalent to 20 basis points of cardmember loan and receivable balances at such date
would increase the provision for cardmember losses by approximately $133 million. This sensitivity analysis does not represent management’s expectations of the deterioration in write-offs but is provided as a hypothetical scenario to assess the
sensitivity of the provision for cardmember losses to changes in key inputs.
The process of determining the reserve for
cardmember losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.
22 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
RESERVES FOR CARDMEMBER LOSSES (CONTINUED) 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
180 days past due. International Card Services (ICS) and Global Commercial Services (GCS)
cardmember receivables are generally written off when they are 360 days past billing.
Cardmember loans and receivables in
bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon notification.
Recoveries of both cardmember loans and
receivables are recognized on a cash basis.
23 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
RESERVES FOR MEMBERSHIP REWARDS COSTS 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
The Membership Rewards program is the largest card-based rewards program in the industry.
Eligible cardmembers can earn points for purchases charged and many of the Company’s card products offer the ability to earn bonus points for certain types of purchases. Membership Rewards points are redeemable for a broad variety of rewards
including travel, entertainment, retail certificates and merchandise.
Points typically do not expire and there is no limit
on the number of points a cardmember may earn. A large majority of spending by eligible cardmembers earns points under the program. While cardmember spend, redemption rates, and the related expense have increased, the Company believes it has
historically benefited through higher revenues, lower cardmember attrition and credit losses and more timely payments.
The
Company establishes balance sheet reserves that represent the estimated future cost of points earned to date that are ultimately expected to be redeemed. These reserves reflect management’s judgment regarding overall adequacy. The provision for
the cost of Membership Rewards is included in marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses.
A weighted-average cost per point redeemed during the previous 12 months, adjusted as
appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs, is used to approximate future redemption costs and is affected by the mix of rewards redeemed. Management uses models to estimate ultimate redemption rates based on historical redemption
statistics, card product type, year of program enrollment, enrollment tenure, and card spend levels. These models incorporate sophisticated statistical and actuarial techniques to estimate ultimate redemption rates of points earned to date by
current cardmembers given redemption trends and projected future redemption behavior.
The global ultimate redemption rate
assumption for current participants is approximately 90 percent. The Company continually evaluates its reserve methodology and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed, contract changes, and other factors.

The reserve for the estimated cost of points expected to be redeemed is impacted over time by
enrollment levels, the number of points earned and redeemed, and the weighted-average cost per point, which is influenced by redemption choices made by cardmembers, reward offerings by partners and other Membership Rewards program changes. The
reserve is most sensitive to changes in the estimated ultimate redemption rate. This rate is based on the expectation that a large majority of all points earned will eventually be redeemed.
As of December 31, 2009, if the ultimate redemption rate of current enrollees increased by 100 basis points, the balance sheet reserve
and corresponding provision for the cost of Membership Rewards would each increase by approximately $250 million.
24 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
The Company holds investment securities, certain subordinated interests in securitized
cardmember loans from the Company’s securitization program and derivative instruments. These financial instruments are reflected at fair value on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management makes significant assumptions and
judgments when estimating fair value for these financial instruments.
Investment Securities
The Company’s investment securities are comprised of predominantly fixed-income securities issued by
states and municipalities as well as the U.S. Government and Agencies (e.g., Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae) and retained subordinated securities described further below. The investment securities are classified as available-for-sale with
changes in fair value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income within shareholders’ equity on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for approximately $213 million, as of December 31, 2008, of investment
securities included in discontinued operations, for which changes in fair value are recorded in (loss) income from discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income).
Securitized Cardmember Loans
When the Company securitizes cardmember loans, they are accounted for as sales and the loans are removed from the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company retains certain subordinated interests in the securitized cardmember loans, which may include one or more investments in tranches of the securitization (retained subordinated securities) and an interest-only strip.
In accordance with fair value measurement and disclosure guidance, the objective of a fair value
measurement is to determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The disclosure guidance establishes a
three-level hierarchy of valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to the measurement of fair value based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1), followed by the measurement of fair value based on pricing models with significant observable inputs (Level 2), with the lowest priority given to the measurement of fair value based on pricing models with significant unobservable inputs
(Level 3).
Investment Securities
The fair market values for the Company’s investment securities (excluding its retained subordinated securities, which are discussed further below) are
obtained primarily from pricing services engaged by the Company. The fair values provided by the pricing services are estimated by using pricing models where the inputs to those models are based on observable market inputs. The inputs to the
valuation techniques applied by the pricing services vary depending on the type of security being priced but are typically benchmark yields, benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds, reported trades and/or broker-dealer quotes,
all with reasonable levels of transparency. The pricing services do not apply any adjustments to the pricing models used. In addition, the Company did not apply any adjustments to prices received from the pricing services. The Company has reaffirmed
its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing services. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices provided by its pricing services to test their reasonableness by comparing their prices to valuations
(continued on next page)
Investment Securities
In the measurement of fair value for the Company’s investment securities (excluding its retained subordinated securities, which are discussed further below), even though the underlying inputs used in
the pricing models are directly observable from active markets or recent trades of similar securities in inactive markets, the pricing models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore differing judgments in how the underlying inputs
are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.
Retained
Subordinated Securities and Interest-Only Strip
In measuring the fair value for the Company’s retained subordinated securities, the
fair value is impacted by external market factors including London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) forward rates and credit spreads, and therefore, the use of different inputs to the measurement of the fair value of the Company’s retained
subordinated securities could result in a different fair value measurement.
The fair value of the interest-only strip is
impacted by changes in the estimates and assumptions used in the valuation models. The use of different inputs to the measurement of fair value of these financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement.
Refer to Note 7 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, including sensitivity analyses relating to changes in key
assumptions for the retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip.
25 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED) 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
Retained Subordinated Securities
Accounting for the retained subordinated securities aligns with that described under investment securities above.
Interest-Only Strip
The interest-only strip is reported at fair value in other assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip are also recorded in
securitization income, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.
Due to changes in GAAP governing the
accounting for transfers of financial assets, effective January 1, 2010, the Company’s retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip will be eliminated in consolidation and no longer measured at fair value.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
Defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) assets are measured at fair value, changes in which are included in the determination of the Plan’s net funded
status which is reported in other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
from different pricing sources as well as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold
securities. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, all of the Company’s investment securities are classified in either Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 3 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Retained Subordinated Securities and Interest-Only
Strip
The fair value of the Company’s retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip are determined using discounted cash
flow models.
The discount rate for the retained subordinated securities is estimated based on an interest rate curve that
is observable in the marketplace plus an unobservable credit spread commensurate with the risk of the securities and similar financial instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s interest-only strip is the present value of estimated future positive excess spread expected to be generated by the securitized loans over the estimated remaining life
of those loans. Management utilizes certain estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the interest-only strip asset including estimates for finance charge yield, credit losses, LIBOR (which determines future certificate interest
costs), monthly payment rate and the discount rate.
The Company’s retained subordinated securities and interest-only
strip are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 3 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment
Realized
losses are recognized when management determines that a decline in value is other-than-temporary, which requires judgment regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investment securities, including retained
subordinated securities at least quarterly, and more often as market conditions may require, to
(continued on next page)
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment
In determining whether any of the Company’s investment securities (including retained subordinated securities) are other-than-temporarily impaired, a
change in facts and circumstances could lead to a change in management judgment around the Company’s view on collectability and credit quality of the issuer, or the Company’s intent to sell the investment securities, and whether it is more
likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of any unrealized losses. Therefore, it is at least reasonably possible that a change in estimate will occur in the near term relating to
other-than-temporary impairment. This could result in the Company recording an other-than-temporary impairment loss through earnings with a corresponding offset to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
Company had approximately $0.3 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, in gross unrealized losses in its investment securities portfolio (including its retained subordinated securities) which were deemed not to be other-than-temporarily impaired.

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
The fair value measurements for the Plan assets contain a similar amount of subjectivity as described under investment securities above, and therefore
differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.
26 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED) 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
Derivative Instruments
The Company’s primary derivative instruments include interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward agreements, and cross-currency swaps. Derivative instruments are reported at fair value in other
assets and other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in fair value are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, and/or in the Consolidated Statements of Income, depending on (i) the
documentation and designation of the derivative instrument, and (ii) if the derivative instrument is in a hedging relationship, its effectiveness in offsetting the changes in the designated risk being hedged.
identify investment securities that have indications of other-than-temporary impairment. The
determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective process, requiring the use of judgments and assumptions. Accordingly, the Company considers several metrics when evaluating investment securities for an other-than-temporary
impairment. The key factors considered when assessing other-than-temporary impairment include the determination of the extent to which the decline in fair value of the investment security is due to increased default risk for the specific issuer, or
market interest rate risk. With respect to increased default risk, the Company assesses the collectibility of principal and interest payments by monitoring a number of issuer specific factors, and the extent to which amortized cost exceeds fair
value and the duration and size of that difference. With respect to market interest rate risk, including benchmark interest rates and credit spreads, the Company assesses whether it has the intent to sell the investment securities, and whether it is
more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of any unrealized losses. Refer to Note 6 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets
The fair value measurements for the Plan assets align with those described under investment securities above. Refer to Note 21 to the Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Derivative
Instruments
The fair value of the Company’s derivative instruments is estimated by using either a third-party valuation service that
uses proprietary pricing models, or by using internal pricing models, neither of which contains a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not require significant judgment and inputs to those
(continued on next page)
Derivative Instruments
In the measurement of fair value for the Company’s derivative instruments, although the underlying inputs used in the pricing models are readily observable from actively quoted markets, the pricing
models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore, differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value. In addition, any necessary credit valuation adjustments are based on
observable default rates. A change in facts and circumstances could lead to a change in management judgment about counterparty credit quality, which could result in the Company recognizing an additional counterparty credit valuation adjustment. As
of December 31, 2009, the credit and nonperformance risks associated with the Company’s derivative instrument counterparties were not significant.
27 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT (CONTINUED) 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
models are readily observable from actively quoted markets. In each case, the valuation models
used are consistently applied and reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period of maturity, and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity indices or prices, and volatility.
Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market parameters (for example, a benchmark curve) used to value the derivative
instruments are not indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit risk by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the current exposure.
The Company manages derivative instrument counterparty credit risk by considering the current exposure, which is the replacement cost of
contracts on the measurement date, as well as estimating the maximum potential value of the contracts over the next 12 months, considering such factors as the volatility of the underlying or reference index. To mitigate derivative instrument credit
risk, counterparties are required to be pre-approved and rated as investment grade. The Company’s derivative instruments are classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Notes 3 and 12 to the Company’s Consolidated
Financial Statements.
28 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
GOODWILL 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In accordance with GAAP, goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment, at the reporting unit level, annually at June 30 and between annual tests if events or circumstances arise, such as
adverse changes in the business climate, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value.
The Company assigns goodwill to its reporting units for the purpose of impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as either an operating segment, or a business one level below an operating segment
for which discrete financial information is available that management regularly reviews.
The goodwill impairment test
utilizes a two-step approach. The first step identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying
amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss.
Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the
carrying value of the reporting unit can be supported by its fair value using widely accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings multiples or transaction multiples for the industry in which the reporting unit operates) or
the income approach (discounted cash flow methods). The fair values of the reporting units were determined using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach.
When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income approach, the Company estimates future cash flows using the reporting
unit’s internal five year forecast and a terminal value calculated using a growth rate that management believes is appropriate in view of current and expected future economic conditions. The Company then applies a discount rate to discount
these future cash flows to arrive at a net present value amount, which represents the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The discount rate applied approximates the expected cost of equity financing, determined using a capital asset pricing
model. The model generates an appropriate discount rate using internal and external inputs to value future cash flows based on the time value of money and the price for bearing the uncertainty inherent in an investment. The Company believes the
resulting rate, 11.4 percent, appropriately reflects the risks and uncertainties in the financial markets generally and in the Company’s internally developed forecasts.
The Company has approximately $2.3 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2009. The fair value of each of the Company’s reporting units
is above its carrying value; accordingly, the Company has concluded its goodwill is not impaired at December 31, 2009. The Company could be exposed to increased risk of goodwill impairment if future operating results or macroeconomic conditions
differ significantly from management’s current assumptions.
29 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
INCOME TAXES 
Description
Assumptions/Approach Used
Effect if Actual Results
Differ
from Assumptions
The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and
municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to the taxpayer’s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. In establishing a provision for
income tax expense, the Company must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
The Company establishes a liability for unrecognized tax
benefits, which are the differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the benefit recognized in the financial statements.
Deferred Taxes
Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. A
valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
In establishing a liability for an unrecognized tax benefit, assumptions may be made in determining whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authority
and also in determining the ultimate amount that is likely to be realized. A tax position is recognized only when, based on management’s judgment regarding the application of income tax laws, it is more likely than not that the tax position
will be sustained upon examination. The amount of tax benefit recognized is based on the Company’s assessment of the most likely outcome on ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. This measurement is based on many factors, including
whether a tax dispute may be settled through negotiation with the taxing authority or is only subject to review in the courts. As new information becomes available, the Company evaluates its tax positions, and adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits,
as appropriate.
Deferred Taxes
Since deferred taxes measure the future tax effects of items recognized in the financial statements, certain estimates and assumptions are required to
determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes and estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary
differences and available tax planning strategies. These assessments are performed quarterly, taking into account any new information.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
If the tax benefit ultimately realized differs from the amount previously recognized in the income tax provision, the Company recognizes an adjustment of the unrecognized tax benefit through the income
tax provision.
Deferred Taxes
Should a change in facts or circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the ultimate realizability of a deferred tax asset, the Company records or
adjusts the related valuation allowance in the period that the change in facts or circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease to the income tax provision.
30 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
SUMMARY OF THE COMPANY’S 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions, except per share
amounts and ratio
data)
2009
2008
2007
Total revenues net of interest expense
24,523
28,365
27,559
Provisions for losses
5,313
5,798
4,103
Expenses
16,369
18,986
17,762
Income from continuing operations
2,137
2,871
4,126
Net income
2,130
2,699
4,012
Earnings per common share from continuing operations — diluted
1.54
2.47
3.44
Earnings per common share — diluted
1.54
2.32
3.34
Return on average equity
(a)
14.6
22.3
37.3
Return on average tangible common equity
(b)
17.6
28.0
44.0
(a)
ROE is calculated by dividing (i) net income ($2.1 billion, $2.7 billion, and $4.0 billion for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively) by (ii) average total
shareholders’ equity ($14.6 billion, $12.1 billion, and $10.8 billion for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively). 
(b)
Return on average tangible common equity is computed in the same manner as ROE except the computation of average TCE excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of
$3.0 billion, $2.5 billion, and $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The Company believes that return on average tangible common equity is a useful measure of profitability of its business.

SELECTED
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
a)
Years Ended December 31,
(Billions, except percentages
and where indicated)
2009
2008
2007
Card billed business
(b)
United States
423.7
471.1
459.3
Outside the United States
196.1
212.2
188.0
Total
619.8
683.3
647.3
Total cards-in-force 
(millions)
(c)
United States
48.9
54.0
52.3
Outside the United States
39.0
38.4
34.1
Total
87.9
92.4
86.4
Basic cards-in-force 
(millions)
(c)
United States
38.2
42.0
40.9
Outside the United States
34.3
33.4
29.2
Total
72.5
75.4
70.1
Average discount rate
(d)
2.54
2.55
2.56
Average basic cardmember spending 
(dollars)
(e)
11,213
12,025
12,106
Average fee per card 
(dollars)
(e)
36
34
32
Average fee per card adjusted 
(dollars)
(e)
40
39
36
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain
insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Card billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where the cardmember is domiciled. 
31 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
(c)
Total cards-in-force represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the
primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic
cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements. 
(d)
This calculation is designed to approximate merchant pricing. It represents the percentage of billed business (both proprietary and GNS) retained by the Company from
merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance. 
(e)
Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net card fees,
including the amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, plus card fees included in interest and fees on loans (including related amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs), divided by average worldwide proprietary cards-in-force.
The card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest and fees on loans were $186 million, $146 million and $130 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The adjusted average fee per card is computed
in the same manner, but excludes amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs (a portion of which is charge card related and included in net card fees and a portion of which is lending related and included in interest and fees on loans). The
amount of amortization excluded was $243 million, $320 million and $288 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card because management believes that this metric
presents a useful indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary card products. 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
SELECTED
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
a)
As of or for the Years Ended December 31,
(Billions, except percentages
and where indicated)
2009
2008
2007
Worldwide cardmember receivables:
Total receivables
33.7
33.0
40.1
Loss reserves 
(millions)
Beginning balance
810
1,149
981
Provision
857
1,363
1,140
Net write-offs
(b)
(1,131
(1,552
(907
Other
10
(150
(65
Ending balance
546
810
1,149
% of receivables
1.6
2.5
2.9
Net write-off rate — USCS
(b)
3.8
3.6
N/A
30 days past due as a % of total — USCS
1.8
3.7
N/A
Net loss ratio as a % of charge volume — ICS
0.36
0.24
0.26
90 days past billing as a % of total — ICS
(c)
2.1
3.1
1.8
Net loss ratio as a % of charge volume — GCS
0.19
0.13
0.10
90 days past billing as a % of total — GCS
(c)
1.4
2.7
2.1
Worldwide cardmember lending — owned basis
(d)
Total loans
32.8
42.2
54.4
30 days past due as a % of total
3.6
4.4
2.8
Loss reserves 
(millions)
Beginning balance
2,570
1,831
1,171
Provision
4,209
4,106
2,615
Net write-offs — principal
(2,949
(2,643
(1,636
Write-offs — interest and fees
(448
(580
(354
Other
(e)
(114
(144
35
Ending balance
3,268
2,570
1,831
Ending Reserves — principal
3,172
2,379
1,691
Ending Reserves — interest and fees
96
191
140
% of loans
10.0
6.1
3.4
% of past due
279
137
119
Average loans
34.8
47.6
47.1
Net write-off rate
8.5
5.5
3.5
Net interest income divided by average loans
(f)(h)
9.0
7.7
7.3
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
(f)
9.7
8.8
8.9
Worldwide cardmember lending — managed basis
(g)
Total loans
61.8
72.0
77.1
30 days past due as a % of total
3.6
4.6
2.8
Net write-offs — principal 
(millions)
5,366
4,065
2,280
Average loans
63.8
75.0
68.2
Net write-off rate
8.4
5.4
3.3
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
(f)
10.2
9.2
9.0
32 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in USCS are written off to 180 days past due,
consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past billing. The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not
reflected in the net write-off rate for USCS. If the $341 million had been included in USCS write-offs, the net write-off rate would have been 5.4 percent for 2008. 
(c)
A cardmember account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the cardmember’s billing statement date. In addition, if
the Company initiates collection procedures on an account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing, the associated cardmember receivable balance is considered as 90 days past billing. A cardmember account becomes past due if payment is not
received within 30 days after the billing statement date. 
(d)
“Owned,” a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(e)
This amount includes reserves of $160 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, that were removed in connection with securitizations during the period. The
offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities. This amount also includes foreign currency translation adjustments. The prior period included foreign currency translation and other adjustments primarily related to
the reclassification of certain waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember receivable. 
(f)
See below for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans presented on an owned basis. The
Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both an owned and managed basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company’s cardmember loans portfolio. 
(g)
Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the “owned basis” (GAAP) information and
“managed basis” information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation.

(h)
This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not
representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense
attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables. 
CALCULATION OF NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS
a)
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions)
2009
2008
Owned Basis:
Net interest income
3,124
3,646
Average loans (
billions
34.8
47.6
Adjusted net interest income
3,392
4,199
Adjusted average loans (
billions
34.9
47.7
Net interest income divided by average loans
9.0
7.7
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
9.7
8.8
Managed Basis:
Net interest income
(b)
5,977
6,328
Average loans (
billions
63.8
75.0
Adjusted net interest income
6,500
6,881
Adjusted average loans (
billions
63.9
75.0
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
10.2
9.2
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
Includes the GAAP to managed basis securitization adjustments to interest income and interest expense as set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information managed
basis presentation. 
The following discussions regarding Consolidated Results of Operations and Consolidated Liquidity and
Capital Resources are presented on a basis consistent with GAAP unless otherwise noted. 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 
The Company’s 2009 consolidated income from continuing operations decreased $734 million or
26 percent to $2.1 billion and diluted EPS from continuing operations declined $0.93 or 38 percent to $1.54. Consolidated income from continuing operations for 2008 decreased $1.3 billion or 30 percent from 2007 and diluted EPS from continuing
operations for 2008 declined $0.97 or 28 percent from 2007. 
The Company’s 2009 consolidated net income decreased $569
million or 21 percent to $2.1 billion, and diluted EPS decreased $0.78 or 34 percent to $1.54. Consolidated net income for 2008 and 2007 was $2.7 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. Net income included losses from discontinued operations of $7
million, $172 million and $114 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
The Company’s total revenues net of
interest expense, provisions for losses, and total expenses decreased by approximately 14 percent, 8 percent and 14 percent, respectively, in 2009. Assuming no changes in foreign currency exchange rates from 2008 to 2009, total revenues net of
interest expense, provisions for losses and total expenses decreased approximately 12 percent, 7 percent and 12

33 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

percent, respectively, in 2009.
2
 Currency rate changes had a minimal impact on the growth rates in 2008. 
Results from continuing
operations for 2009 included: 
A $180 million ($113 million after-tax) benefit in the third quarter related to the accounting for a net investment in the Company’s consolidated
foreign subsidiaries. See also Business Segment Results – Corporate & Other below for further discussion; 
A $211 million ($135 million after-tax) gain in the second quarter of 2009 on the sale of 50 percent of the Company’s equity holdings of
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC); and 
A $190 million ($125 million after-tax) net charge related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives. 
Results from continuing operations for 2008 included: 
A $600 million ($374 million after-tax) addition to U.S. lending credit reserves reflecting a deterioration of credit indicators in the second quarter
of 2008; 
A $449 million ($291 million after-tax) net charge, primarily reflecting the restructuring costs related to the Company’s reengineering
initiatives in the fourth quarter of 2008; 
A $220 million ($138 million after-tax) reduction to the fair market value of the Company’s interest-only strip; and 
A $106 million ($66 million after-tax) charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 to increase the Company’s Membership Rewards liability, in connection
with the Company’s extension of its partnership arrangements with Delta. 
Results from continuing operations for
2007 included: 
A $1.13 billion ($700 million after-tax) gain for the initial payment due March 31, 2008, from Visa as part of the litigation settlement;

An $80 million ($50 million after-tax) gain in connection with derivative and hedging instruments; 
A $63 million ($39 million after-tax) gain relating to amendments to the Company’s U.S. pension plans, effective July 1, 2007, that reduced
projected pension obligations to plan participants; 
2
These currency rate adjustments assume a constant exchange rate between periods for purposes of currency translation into U.S. dollars (i.e., assumes the foreign
exchange rates used to determine results for the current year apply to the corresponding year-earlier period against which such results are being compared). Management believes that this presentation is helpful to investors by making it easier to
compare the Company’s performance from one period to another without the variability caused by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 
A $685 million ($430 million after-tax) charge related to enhancements to the method of estimating Membership Rewards liability;

A $438 million ($274 million after-tax) credit-related charge due to experienced deterioration of credit indicators in the latter part of 2007. This
fourth quarter charge was split between USCS cardmember loans and cardmember receivables of $288 million and $96 million, respectively, and included $54 million relating to a reduction in the fair value of the Company’s retained subordinated
interest in securitized cardmember loans; 
$211 million ($131 million after-tax) of incremental business-building costs; 
$74 million ($46 million after-tax) of Visa litigation-related costs; and 
A $50 million ($31 million after-tax) contribution to the American Express Charitable Fund. 
Also included in the 2007 results were $66 million ($43 million after-tax) of reengineering costs related to the Company’s business travel, prepaid
services, international payments business and technology areas. 
Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense 
Consolidated total revenues net of interest expense for 2009 of $24.5 billion were down $3.8 billion or 14 percent from 2008, due to lower discount revenue,
lower total interest income, reduced securitization income, net, lower other commissions and fees, reduced travel commissions and fees, and decreased other revenues, partially offset by lower total interest expense. Consolidated total revenues net
of interest expense of $28.4 billion for 2008 were $806 million or 3 percent higher than 2007 primarily due to greater discount revenue, lower total interest expense, higher other revenues, increased net card fees and greater travel commissions and
fees, partially offset by lower securitization income, net, decreased interest income and lower other commissions and fees. 
Discount revenue for 2009 declined $1.6 billion or 11 percent as compared to 2008 to $13.4 billion as a result of a 9 percent decrease in worldwide billed business. The greater decrease in discount revenue compared to billed business
primarily reflects growth in billed business related to GNS where the Company shares the discount revenue with card issuing partners, as well as a slight decline in the average discount rate. The 9 percent decrease in worldwide billed business in
2009 reflected decline in proprietary billed business of 11 percent, offset by a 7 percent increase in billed business related to GNS. The average discount rate was 2.54 percent, 2.55 percent, and 2.56 percent for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
Over time, selective repricing initiatives, changes in the mix of business, and volume-related pricing discounts likely will result in some erosion of the average discount rate. 
34 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
U.S. billed business and billed business outside the United States were down 10 percent and 8 percent, respectively, in 2009. The decline in
billed business within the United States reflected a decrease in basic cards-in-force and average spending per proprietary basic card. The decline in billed business outside the United States reflected a decrease in average spending per proprietary
basic card and decreases within the Company’s consumer card, small business and Corporate Services business. 
The table below summarizes selected statistics for billed business and average spend: 
2009
2008
Percentage Increase
(Decrease)
Percentage Increase
(Decrease) Assuming
No Changes in
Foreign Exchange
Rates
(f)
Percentage Increase
(Decrease)
Percentage Increase
(Decrease) Assuming
No Changes in
Foreign Exchange
Rates
(f)
Worldwide
(a)
Billed business
(9
(7
6
5
Proprietary billed business
(11
(9
4
3
GNS volumes
(b)
7
11
27
27
Average spending per proprietary basic card
(7
(5
(1
(1
United States
(a)
Billed business
(10
3
Average spending per proprietary basic card
(6
(3
Proprietary consumer card billed business
(c)
(10
(1
Proprietary small business billed business
(c)
(13
7
Proprietary Corporate Services billed business
(d)
(11
4
Outside the United States
(a)
Billed business
(8
(1
13
12
Average spending per proprietary basic card
(9
(3
6
4
Proprietary consumer and small business billed business
(e)
(10
(4
8
7
Proprietary Corporate Services billed business
(d)
(19
(12
9
8
(a)
Captions in the table above not designated as “proprietary” include both proprietary and GNS data. 
(b)
Included in the GNMS segment. 
(c)
Included in the USCS segment. 
(d)
Included in the GCS segment. 
(e)
Included in the ICS segment. 
(f)
Refer to footnote 2 on page 34 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates. 
Assuming no changes in foreign exchange rates, total billed business outside the United
States reflected mid-single digit volume increases in Latin America and Asia Pacific, and mid-single digit declines in Canada and Europe. 
During 2008, discount revenue rose $429 million or 3 percent to $15 billion compared to 2007 as a result of a 6 percent increase in worldwide billed business, partially offset by a lower average discount
rate, relatively faster growth in billed business related to GNS, and higher cash-back rewards costs and corporate incentive payments, which are reported as reductions to revenue (contra-revenue). The 6 percent increase in worldwide billed business
in 2008 reflected growth in proprietary billed business of 4 percent, and a 27 percent increase in billed business related to GNS. 
Net card fees in 2009 remained unchanged compared to 2008 as the decline in total proprietary cards in force was offset by an increase in the average fee per card. Net card fees in 2008 of $2.2 billion increased $231 million or 12 percent
compared to 2007 due to higher average fee per proprietary card. 
Travel commissions and fees decreased $416 million or 21
percent to $1.6 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting a 28 percent decrease in worldwide travel sales, partially offset by higher sales commission and fee rates. 
35 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

Travel commissions and fees in 2008 of $2.0 billion increased $84 million or 4 percent compared to 2007, primarily reflecting a 3 percent increase in worldwide travel sales. 
Other commissions and fees decreased $529 million or 23 percent to $1.8 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, due to lower delinquency fees
reflecting decreased owned loan balances and the impacts of various customer assistance programs, in addition to reduced spending-related foreign currency conversion revenues. Other commissions and fees decreased $110 million or 5 percent in 2008 to
$2.3 billion compared to 2007 due to the reclassification to other revenues in USCS of certain card service-related fees beginning in the first quarter of 2008 and a lower level of fees related to a lower average balance of owned loans, which were
partially offset by increased assessment revenues. 
Securitization income, net decreased $670 million or 63 percent to $400
million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to lower excess spread, net, driven by increased write-offs and a decrease in interest income on cardmember loans and fee revenues. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a decrease in
interest expense due to lower coupon rates paid on variable-rate investor certificates, as well as a favorable fair value adjustment of the interest-only strip. Securitization income, net decreased $437 million or 29 percent to $1.1 billion in 2008
compared to 2007, primarily due to lower excess spread, net, driven by increased write-offs, charges to the fair value of the interest-only strip reflecting lower expected future cash flows, and a net loss on sales compared to net gains in the prior
year. These impacts were partially offset by higher finance charges and fees due to a greater average balance of securitized loans and lower interest expense due to lower rates paid on investor certificates. 
Other revenues in 2009 decreased $70 million or 3 percent to $2.1 billion compared to 2008, primarily reflecting decreased revenues from CPS,
due to the migration of clients to the American Express network, and lower publishing revenues, partially offset by the ICBC gain. Other revenues increased $406 million or 23 percent to $2.2 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily reflecting the
benefits of the CPS acquisition, higher network and partner-related revenues, a reclassification from other commissions and fees from USCS as discussed above, and greater foreign exchange-related revenues. 
Interest income decreased $1.9 billion or 26 percent to $5.3 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. Interest and fees on loans decreased $1.7
billion or 27 percent due to decline in the average owned loan balance, reduced market interest rates and the impact of various customer assistance programs, partially offset by the benefit of certain repricing initiatives. Interest and dividends on
investment securities increased $33 million or 4 percent, primarily reflecting increased investment levels partially offset by reduced investment yields. Interest income from deposits with banks and other decreased $212 million or 78 percent,
primarily due to a reduced yield and a lower balance of deposits in other banks. During 2008, interest income decreased $223 million or 3 percent to $7.2 billion compared to 2007, reflecting primarily a decrease in interest and fees on loans, which
declined $192 million or 3 percent due to a lower portfolio yield, reduced market interest rates on variably priced assets, partially offset by a slightly higher average owned loan balance. 
Interest expense decreased $1.3 billion or 38 percent to $2.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. Interest expense related to deposits
decreased $29 million or 6 percent, primarily due to a lower cost of funds which more than offset increased balances. Interest expense related to short-term borrowings decreased $446 million or 92 percent, due to significantly lower short-term debt
levels and a lower cost of funds. Interest expense related to long-term debt and other decreased $873 million or 33 percent, primarily reflecting a lower cost of funds driven by reduced market rates on variably priced debt, as well as a lower
average balance of long-term debt outstanding. Interest expense of $3.6 billion in 2008 was $426 million or 11 percent lower than 2007 reflecting a $248 million decrease in interest expense on short-term borrowing, primarily due to a lower cost of
funds and a decrease in average short-term debt. 
Provisions for Losses 
Provisions for losses of $5.3 billion in 2009 decreased $485 million or 8 percent compared to 2008. Charge card provisions for losses decreased $506 million,
or 37 percent, primarily driven by improved credit performance. Cardmember loans provisions for losses increased $35 million, or 1 percent, primarily due to a higher cardmember reserve level due to the challenging credit environment, partially
offset by a lower owned loan balance. 
Provisions for losses of $5.8 billion in 2008 increased $1.7 billion or 41 percent
compared to 2007. Charge card provisions for losses increased $223 million or 20 percent in 2008 primarily due to higher loss and delinquency rates compared to 2007, partially offset by the credit-related charge in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Cardmember loans provisions for losses increased $1.5 billion or 53 percent due to higher write-off and delinquency rates and higher average owned loan balances. 
Expenses 
Consolidated expenses for 2009 were $16.4 billion, down $2.6 billion or
14 percent from $19.0 billion in 2008. The decrease in 2009 was primarily driven by lower other, net expenses, reduced salaries and employee benefits expenses, lower marketing and promotion expense and decreased cardmember rewards expense partially
offset by greater cardmember services expense. Consolidated expenses for 2008 were $19.0 billion, up $1.2 billion or 7 percent from $17.8 billion in 2007. The increase in 2008 was primarily driven by higher other, net expenses, greater salaries and
employee

36 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

benefits expenses, higher occupancy and equipment expenses, increased professional services costs and greater cardmember services expense, partially offset by decreased cardmember rewards expense
and lower marketing and promotion expense. Consolidated expenses in 2009, 2008, and 2007 also included $190 million, $449 million and $66 million, respectively, of reengineering costs, of which $185 million, $417 million, and $49 million,
respectively, represent restructuring charges. Refer to the discussion earlier regarding the Company’s 2008 and 2009 reengineering initiatives and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for restructuring activities for all periods.

Marketing and promotion expenses decreased $516 million or 21 percent to $1.9 billion in 2009 from $2.4 billion in 2008, due
to lower spending levels in the first three quarters of 2009, partially offset by higher expense in the fourth quarter of 2009. Marketing and promotion for 2008 decreased $132 million or 5 percent to $2.4 billion, reflecting decreased investments as
compared to 2007, which included the incremental business-building costs. 
Cardmember rewards expenses decreased $353 million
or 8 percent to $4.0 billion in 2009 from $4.4 billion in 2008, reflecting lower rewards-related spending volumes, partially offset by higher redemption rates and costs in Membership Rewards and higher costs with relatively lower declines in
co-brand spending volumes. Cardmember rewards decreased $388 million or 8 percent to $4.4 billion in 2008 from $4.8 billion in 2007, reflecting the Membership Rewards-related charge in 2007, which was partially offset by the Delta-related charge in
2008 to increase the Membership Rewards liability and higher volume-driven rewards costs. 
Salaries and employee benefits
expenses decreased $1.0 billion or 17 percent to $5.1 billion in 2009 from $6.1 billion in 2008, reflecting lower employee levels and costs related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives, as well as the restructuring charge in the fourth
quarter of 2008. Salaries and employee benefits expenses in 2008 increased $652 million or 12 percent to $6.1 billion from $5.4 billion in 2007 reflecting the fourth quarter of 2008 restructuring charge related to the Company’s reengineering
initiatives, an increase in average headcount, greater merit and sales force-related incentive costs and the pension-related gain in 2007. 
Professional services expenses in 2009 compared to 2008 remained flat. Professional services expenses in 2008 compared to 2007 increased $133 million or 6 percent. 
Other, net expenses in 2009 decreased $708 million or 23 percent to $2.4 billion compared to 2008, reflecting the full year of settlement
payments from MasterCard in 2009 versus two quarters in 2008, a $180 million third quarter benefit related to the accounting for a net investment in the Company’s consolidated foreign subsidiaries (as discussed further in Business Segment
Results – Corporate & Other below), a $59 million benefit in the second quarter of 2009 from the completion of certain account reconciliations related to prior periods, and lower travel and entertainment and other expenses due to
the Company’s reengineering activities. These were partially offset by a $9 million favorable impact in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to fair value hedge ineffectiveness. Other, net expenses in 2008 increased $895 million or 40 percent to
$3.1 billion compared to 2007 primarily due to the initial $1.13 billion Visa litigation settlement gain in the fourth quarter of 2007, net of litigation expenses, the related contribution to the American Express Charitable Fund and the 2008
expenses related to the CPS acquisition. These impacts were partially offset by the 2008 settlement payments from MasterCard and Visa. 
Income Taxes 
The effective tax rate was 25 percent in 2009 compared to 20 percent in 2008 and 28 percent in 2007. The tax
rates for these years reflect tax benefits related to the resolution of certain prior years’ tax items and recurring permanent tax benefits in relation to the level of pretax income. 
Discontinued Operations 
Loss from
discontinued operations, net of tax, was $7 million, $172 million and $114 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, primarily reflected AEIDC and AEB results from operations, including
AEIDC’s $15 million ($10 million after-tax), $275 million ($179 million after-tax) and $105 million ($69 million after-tax) of losses related to mark-to-market adjustments and sales within the AEIDC investment portfolio in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, as well as AEB’s compliance-related remediation costs of $71 million ($45 million after-tax) to implement a more robust compliance program, and regulatory and legal expenses and monetary penalties of $60 million pretax and
after-tax in 2007. 
CASH FLOWS 
Cash Flows from Operating Activities 
In 2009 and 2008, net cash provided by
operating activities exceeded net income, primarily due to provisions for losses, which do not require cash at the time of provision. Similarly, depreciation and amortization represent non-cash expenses. In addition, net cash was provided by net
income and higher accounts payable and other liabilities balances (including the Membership Rewards liability). These accounts vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of various payments. 
For the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash provided by operating activities of $6.4 billion decreased compared to 2008. The decrease
was primarily due to a decrease in deferred taxes, acquisition costs and other, fluctuations in the Company’s other receivables, accounts payable and other liabilities, as well as a reduction in income from continuing operations, partially
offset by changes in other assets. 
37 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Net cash provided by operating activities increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the increase in non-cash provisions for losses and
deferred taxes, acquisition cost and other, offset by the outflow of cash resulting from fluctuations in the Company’s other assets. 
Cash Flows from Investing Activities 
The Company’s investing activities primarily include funding cardmember loans and
receivables, securitizations of cardmember loans and receivables, and the Company’s available-for-sale investment portfolio. 
For the year ended December 31, 2009, increased net cash used in investing activities of $6.8 billion compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $7.6 billion in 2008, due to lower proceeds from cardmember loan
securitizations primarily due to a decrease in maturities and redemptions of investments, and an increase in restricted cash required for related securitization activities. 
In 2008, net cash used in investing activities increased from 2007 primarily due to net decreases in cardmember receivables and loans
balances and cash provided by the sale of investments attributable to discontinued operations offset by cash used for acquisitions. 
Cash Flows from Financing Activities 
The Company’s financing activities primarily include issuing and repaying debt,
taking customer deposits, paying dividends, and repurchasing its common and preferred shares. 
In 2009, net cash used in
financing activities of $4.6 billion decreased compared to 2008, primarily due to an increase in customer deposits in 2009 and a reduction in cash used in financing activities attributable to discontinued operations in 2008. 
In 2008, net cash used in financing activities increased compared to 2007, primarily due to net repayments of debt and the net cash used in
financing activities attributable to discontinued operations, partially offset by a decrease in the repurchase of American Express common shares from 2007. 
CERTAIN LEGISLATIVE, REGULATORY AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS 
As a participant in the
financial services industry, the Company is subject to a wide array of regulations applicable to its businesses. The Company is a bank holding company and is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve. As such, the Company is subject to the
Federal Reserve’s regulations and policies, including its regulatory capital requirements. In addition, the extreme disruptions in the capital markets since mid-2007 and the resulting instability and failure of numerous financial institutions
have led to a number of proposals for changes in the financial services industry, including significant additional regulation and the potential formation of additional regulatory bodies. To that end, in the summer of 2009 legislation proposing
significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to
regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals also call for substantive regulation across the financial services industry, such as new requirements for the
securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization. Legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of the
Company’s business activities, require the Company to change certain of its business practices and expose it to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). 
In recent years, there has been a heightened level of regulatory attention on banks and the payments industry in many countries. In May 2009,
the U.S. Congress passed, and the President of the United States signed into law, legislation to fundamentally reform credit card billing practices, pricing and disclosure requirements. This legislation accelerated the effective date and expanded
the scope of amendments to the rules regarding Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices (UDAP) and Truth in Lending Act that restrict certain credit and charge card practices and require expanded disclosures to consumers, which were adopted in December
2008 by federal bank regulators in the United States. Together, the legislation and the regulatory amendments, portions of which became effective commencing August 2009, include, among other matters, rules relating to the imposition by card issuers
of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect of outstanding balances with different interest rates. The Company is undertaking various actions to mitigate the impact of the legislation and the
amendments on its business and operations. In the event any actions undertaken by the Company to offset their impact are not effective, the legislation and amendments will likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations. 
The credit and charge card industry also faces continuing scrutiny in connection with the fees merchants are
charged to accept cards. Although investigations into the way bankcard network members collectively set the “interchange” (that is, the fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in “four party” payment
networks, like Visa and MasterCard) had largely been a subject of regulators outside the United States, legislation has been introduced in Congress designed to give merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate interchange collectively with card
networks and to regulate certain card network practices. Although, unlike the Visa and

38 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

MasterCard networks, the American Express network does not collectively set fees, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard networks’ pricing could ultimately affect all
networks. 
In addition to the legislative and regulatory initiatives in the United States regarding card practices and merchant
fees, other countries in which the Company operates have been considering and in some cases adopting similar legislation and rules that would impose changes on certain practices of card issuers and bankcard networks, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 
CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY 
The Company’s balance sheet management objectives are to maintain: 
A solid and flexible equity capital profile; 
A broad, deep and diverse set of funding sources to finance its assets and meet operating requirements; and 
Liquidity programs that enable the Company to satisfy all maturing financing obligations for at least a 12 month period should some or all of its
funding sources become inaccessible. 
CAPITAL STRATEGY 
The Company’s objective is to retain sufficient levels of capital generated through earnings and other sources to maintain a solid equity capital base
and to provide flexibility to satisfy future business growth. The Company believes capital allocated to growing businesses with a return on risk-adjusted equity in excess of its costs will generate shareholder value. 
The level and composition of the Company’s equity capital are determined in large part by the Company’s internal assessment of its
business activities, as well as rating agency and regulatory capital requirements. They are also influenced by subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment, and by conditions in the debt capital markets. The Company, as a bank holding
company, is subject to regulatory requirements administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. The Federal Reserve has established specific capital adequacy guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain
off-balance sheet items. 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended the accounting for off-balance sheet
securitization activities beginning January 1, 2010, which resulted in the Company having to consolidate the assets (primarily cardmember loans) and liabilities (primarily debt certificates) of the American Express Credit Account Master Trust
(the Lending Trust). Both the cardmember loans and the debt will be consolidated by American Express Travel Related Services (TRS), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and a leading global payments and travel company, net of reserves for
expected credit losses. 
The following table presents the regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio for the
Company and its significant banking subsidiaries, as well as some additional ratios for the Company widely utilized in the marketplace, at December 31, 2009. The respective pro forma ratios are also presented, assuming the Lending Trust was
consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2009: 
Well-
Capitalized
Ratio
2009
Actual
2009
ProForma
(a)
(b)
Risk-Based Capital
Tier 1
6
American Express Company
9.8
8.6
Centurion Bank
13.7
13.7
FSB
14.2
14.2
Total
10
American Express Company
11.9
10.8
Centurion Bank
15.0
15.0
FSB
16.7
16.7
Tier 1 Leverage
5
American Express Company
9.7
7.0
Centurion Bank
17.1
17.1
FSB
15.1
15.1
Tier 1 Common Risk-Based
American Express Company
4
(d)
9.8
8.6
Common Equity to Risk-
Weighted Assets
(c)
American Express Company
12.4
11.0
Tangible common Equity to Risk-Weighted Assets
(c)
American Express Company
9.7
8.4
(a)
Assumes the impact of the recognition of corresponding reserves and other adjustments on the Company would be as follows: Tangible common shareholders’ equity
(TCE), common equity and risk-weighted assets decreasing by $1.8 billion; Tier 1 common equity, Tier 1 capital and total capital decreasing by $1.6 billion; and total average assets increasing by $23.7 billion. 
(b)
TRS will be the consolidating entity for the off-balance sheet securitized trust (Lending Trust) and therefore there would be no impact to the capital ratios of
Centurion Bank and FSB. 
(c)
Common shareholders’ equity equals the Company’s shareholders’ equity of $14.4 billion at December 31, 2009, and TCE equals common
shareholders’ equity, less goodwill and intangibles of $3.0 billion. Risk-weighted assets at December 31, 2009, were $116.6 billion. The Company believes that presenting the ratio of TCE to risk-weighted assets is a useful measure of
evaluating the strength of the Company’s capital position. See also footnote (a) above. 
(d)
The regulatory benchmark of 4 percent was used within the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, conducted earlier in 2009. 
39 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The Company seeks to maintain capital levels and ratios in excess of the minimum regulatory
requirements; failure to maintain minimum capital levels could cause the respective regulatory agencies to take actions that could limit the Company’s business operations. 
The Company’s primary source of equity capital has been through the generation of net income. Historically, capital generated through
net income and other sources, such as the exercise of stock options by employees, has exceeded the growth in its capital requirements. To the extent capital has exceeded business, regulatory and rating agency requirements, the Company has returned
excess capital to shareholders through its regular common dividend and the share repurchase program. 
The Company maintains
certain flexibility to shift capital across its businesses as appropriate. For example, the Company may infuse additional capital into subsidiaries to maintain capital at targeted levels in consideration of debt ratings and regulatory requirements.
These infused amounts can affect the capital profile and liquidity levels for American Express’ Parent Company (Parent Company). 
During 2009, the Company returned $855 million in dividends to shareholders, which represents approximately 46 percent of total capital generated. 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY CAPITAL PURCHASE PROGRAM 
On January 9, 2009,
under the United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) Capital Purchase Program (CPP), the Company issued to the Treasury Department for aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion: (1) 3.39 million shares of Fixed Rate (5
percent) Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series A, and (2) a ten-year warrant (the Warrant) for the Treasury Department to purchase up to 24 million common shares at an exercise price of $20.95 per share. The Company repurchased the
Preferred Shares from the Treasury Department at par on June 17, 2009, and repurchased the Warrant for $340 million on July 29, 2009. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this program.

SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS 
The Company has a share repurchase program to return excess capital to shareholders. These share repurchases reduce shares outstanding and offset, in whole or part, the issuance of new shares as part of
employee compensation plans. 
On a cumulative basis, since 1994 the Company has distributed 67 percent of capital generated
through share repurchases and dividends. No shares have been repurchased over the past seven quarters, as share repurchases were suspended during the first quarter of 2008 in light of the challenging global economic environment and limitations while
under the CPP. 
FUNDING STRATEGY 
The Company seeks to maintain broad and well-diversified funding sources to allow it to meet its maturing obligations, cost-effectively finance current and
future asset growth in its global businesses as well as to maintain a strong liquidity profile. The diversity of funding sources by type of debt instrument, by maturity and by investor base, among other factors, provides additional insulation from
the impact of disruptions in any one type of debt, maturity, or investor. The mix of the Company’s funding in any period will seek to achieve cost-efficiency consistent with both maintaining diversified sources and achieving its liquidity
objectives. The Company’s funding strategy and activities are integrated into its asset-liability management activities. 
The Company’s proprietary card businesses are the primary asset-generating businesses, with significant assets in both domestic and international cardmember receivable and lending activities. The Company’s borrowing needs are in
large part a consequence of its proprietary card-issuing businesses and the maintenance of a liquidity position to support all of its business activities, such as merchant payments. The Company generally pays merchants for card transactions prior to
reimbursement by cardmembers and therefore funds the merchant payments during the period cardmember loans and receivables are outstanding. The Company also has additional borrowing needs associated with general corporate purposes. 
FUNDING PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES 
The Company meets its funding needs through a variety of sources, including debt instruments such as senior unsecured debentures, asset securitizations, deposits placed with the Company’s U.S. banks by individuals and long-term
committed bank borrowing facilities in certain non-U.S. markets. 
40 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The following discussion includes information on both a GAAP and managed basis. The
managed basis presentation includes debt issued in connection with the Company’s lending securitization activities, which are off-balance sheet. For a discussion of managed basis and management’s rationale for such presentation, refer to
the USCS discussion below. The Company had the following consolidated debt, on both a GAAP and managed basis, and customer deposits outstanding as of December 31: 
(Billions)
2009
2008
Short-term borrowings
2.3
9.0
Long-term debt
52.3
60.0
Total debt (GAAP basis)
54.6
69.0
Off-balance sheet securitizations
28.3
29.0
Total debt (managed basis)
82.9
98.0
Customer deposits
26.3
15.5
Total debt (managed) and customer deposits
109.2
113.5
The Company’s funding strategy for 2010 is to raise funds to meet short-term borrowings outstanding, which includes short-term deposits, seasonal and other working capital needs, changes in receivables and other asset balances, while
maintaining sufficient cash and readily-marketable securities, which are easily convertible to cash, in order to be able to satisfy all maturing funding obligations for a 12 month period. The Company has $7.4 billion of unsecured long-term debt,
$10.2 billion of asset securitizations, and $2.6 billion of long-term deposits that will mature during 2010. 
The
Company’s equity capital and funding strategies are designed to maintain appropriate and stable debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies (collectively the “Credit Rating Agencies”), Moody’s Investor Services
(Moody’s), Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), and Dominion Bond Rating Services (DBRS). There have been no changes to the ratings since second quarter 2009, however, both DBRS and S&P have recently revised
their ratings outlook from “Negative” to “Stable”. 
Credit
Agency
Entity
Rated
Short-
Term
ratings
Long-
Term
ratings
Outlook
DBRS
All rated entities
R-1
(middle)
A
(high)
Stable
Fitch
All rated entities
F1
A+
Negative
Moody’s
TRS and rated operating
subsidiaries
Prime-1
A2
Stable
American Express Company
Prime-2
A3
Negative
S&P
All rated entities
A-2
BBB+
Stable
Downgrades in the Company’s unsecured debt or asset securitization program’s securities ratings could result in higher interest expense on the
Company’s unsecured debt and asset securitizations, as well as higher fees related to borrowings under its unused lines of credit. In addition to increased funding costs, declines in credit ratings could reduce the Company’s borrowing
capacity in the unsecured debt and asset securitization capital markets. The Company believes that the change in its funding mix, which now includes an increasing proportion of U.S. retail deposits, should reduce the impacts that credit rating
downgrades would have on the Company’s funding capacity and costs. 
SHORT-TERM FUNDING PROGRAMS 
Short-term borrowings, such as commercial paper, are defined as any debt or time deposit with an original maturity of 12 months or less. The Company’s
short-term funding programs are used primarily to meet working capital needs, such as managing seasonal variations in receivables balances. Short-term borrowing decreased significantly in 2009 as part of the change in the Company’s funding mix.
The amount of short-term borrowing issued in the future will depend on the Company’s funding strategy, its needs and market conditions. 
The Company had the following short-term borrowings outstanding as of December 31: 
(Billions)
2009
2008
Credco:
Commercial paper
1.0
7.3
Other
0.1
Centurion Bank and FSB:
Federal funds purchased
0.5
Other
1.3
1.1
Total
2.3
9.0
The Company’s short-term borrowings as a percentage of total debt as of December 31 were as follows: 
2009
2008
Short-term borrowings as a percentage of total debt (GAAP basis)
4.3
13.0
The Company had continuous access to the commercial paper market during 2009, and as of December 31, 2009, the Company had $1.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding. Average commercial paper outstanding was $2.0 billion and
$10.8 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
American Express Credit Corporation’s (Credco) total back-up liquidity
coverage, which includes its undrawn committed bank facilities, was in excess of 100 percent of its net short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
41 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
DEPOSIT PROGRAMS 
The Company offers deposits within its Centurion Bank and FSB subsidiaries (together, the “Banks”). These funds are currently insured up to $250,000 through the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC). During the second quarter of 2009, the Company, through FSB, launched a direct deposit-taking program, Personal Savings from American Express, to supplement its distribution of deposit products through third-party distribution
channels. This program, which currently represents a small portion of the Company’s deposit program, makes FDIC-insured CDs and high-yield savings account products available directly to consumers. 
As of December 31, 2009, the Company held the following deposits: 
(Billions)
2009
2008
U.S. retail deposits:
Cash sweep and savings accounts
10.5
7.2
Certificates of deposit
 (a)
15.1
6.3
Institutional and other deposits
0.7
2.0
Total customer deposits
26.3
15.5
(a)
The average original maturity and annual interest rate on outstanding U.S. retail CDs were 29 months and 2.3 percent, respectively. 
LONG-TERM DEBT PROGRAMS 
In 2009,
the Company and its subsidiaries issued debt and asset securitizations with maturities ranging from 2 to 10 years. These amounts included approximately $2.25 billion of AAA-rated lending securitization certificates and $6.7 billion of unsecured debt
across a variety of maturities and markets. During the year, the Company retained approximately $2.0 billion of subordinated securities, as the pricing and yields for these securities were not attractive for the Company due to market conditions. The
subordinated securities issued in the year included $1.5 billion of the new Class D securities, created as part of the actions to add further credit enhancement to the Lending Trust. 
The Company’s 2009 offerings, which include those made by the Parent Company, Credco, American Express Canada Credit Corporation and the
Lending Trust, are presented in the following table on both a GAAP and managed basis: 
(Billions)
Amount
American Express Company (Parent Company only):
Fixed Rate Senior Notes at an average coupon of 7.76%
3.0
American Express Credit Corporation:
Fixed Rate Senior Notes at an average coupon of 5.17% 
(a)
2.8
American Express Canada Credit Corporation:
Fixed Rate Senior Notes at a coupon of 4.85%
0.8
Floating Rate Senior Notes at a spread of 170 basis points to 3 month CDOR
(b)
0.1
GAAP Basis
6.7
American Express Credit Account Master Trust:
Trust Investor Certificates at an average spread of 129 basis points to 1 month LIBOR 
(c) (d)
4.3
Managed Basis
11.0
(a)
Credco’s issuance includes $79 million of unsecured debt issued within the retail note market. 
(b)
Canadian Dealer Offered Rate. 
(c)
Issuances from the Lending Trust, an off-balance sheet entity, include $2.0 billion of subordinated securities retained by American Express during the year.

(d)
The average coupon relates to those securities issued into the market and does not include the rates on retained securities. 
ASSET SECURITIZATION PROGRAMS 
The
Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables and loans arising from its card business, as the securitization market provides the Company with cost-effective funding. Securitization of cardmember receivables and loans is accomplished
through the transfer of those assets to a Trust, which in turn issues certificates or notes (securities) to third-party investors collateralized by the transferred assets. The proceeds from issuance are distributed to the Company, through its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, as consideration for the transferred assets. Securitization transactions are accounted for as either a sale or secured borrowing, based upon the structure of the transaction and GAAP requirements applicable prior to
January 1, 2010. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the changes in GAAP requirements related to Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, effective January 1, 2010. 
Securitization of cardmember receivables generated under designated consumer charge card, small business charge card and corporate charge
card accounts is accomplished through the transfer of cardmember receivables to the American Express Issuance Trust (the Charge Trust). 
42 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Securitization of the Company’s cardmember loans generated under designated consumer lending accounts is accomplished through the transfer
(as a sale) of cardmember loans to the Lending Trust. In a securitization structure like the Lending Trust (a revolving master trust), credit card accounts are selected and the rights to the current cardmember loans, as well as future cash flows
related to the corresponding accounts, are transferred to the Trust for the life of the accounts. 
Since the third quarter of
2007, the Company has typically been retaining some or all of subordinated securities issued as part of a transaction, due to prevailing market conditions. 
Under the respective terms of the Lending Trust and the Charge Trust agreements, the occurrence of certain events could result in payment of trust expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in a
worst-case scenario, early amortization of investor certificates. For additional information about the Company’s asset securitizations that could affect the Company’s liquidity position, including three-month average excess spread rates
and other key metrics, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
On March 3, 2009, the Treasury
Department and the Federal Reserve launched the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF), which is currently set to expire on March 31, 2010. Securitized credit and charge card receivables are eligible collateral under the TALF,
provided the securities qualify for AAA ratings from two or more major nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs). The Company issued $2.25 billion in AAA rated TALF eligible securities during 2009. 
In an effort to address the concerns of the Credit Rating Agencies and the decline in the trust excess spread due to the performance of the
underlying credit card receivables in the Lending Trust and the related American Express Credit Account Secured Note Trusts (the “Note Trusts”), the subsidiaries of the Company that are the transferors of the Lending Trust undertook
certain actions during the second quarter of 2009 to adjust the credit enhancement structure of substantially all of the then outstanding series of securities previously issued by the Lending Trust and the Note Trusts. The actions entailed the
issuance of two new series of asset-backed securities, to provide additional credit enhancement to substantially all of the then outstanding series, and the exercise of a discount option with respect to new principal receivables arising in the
Lending Trust. The Company believes that these actions will not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. These actions resulted in the inclusion of the Lending Trust’s assets as risk-weighted assets for regulatory
capital purposes. For additional information regarding such actions, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The
Credit Rating Agencies are assessing the potential impact of the adoption of recently issued accounting standards for transfers of financial assets and for consolidation of variable interest entities (the “Accounting Standards”) on credit
ratings of the securities issued by securitization trusts within the overall asset-backed securities market. (The Accounting Standards, previously issued as FASB Statements Nos. 166 and 167, are discussed further in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.) In particular, the Credit Rating Agencies are assessing the FDIC’s safe harbor rule relating to the FDIC’s treatment of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring financial institution’s receivership or
conservatorship. Pursuant to the safe harbor rule, the FDIC will not reclaim any financial asset transferred in connection with a securitization, provided that such transfer meets all conditions for GAAP sale accounting. Because the adoption of the
Accounting Standards may cause some asset transfers to securitization trusts to no longer be deemed asset sales for accounting purposes within a company’s consolidated group, the Credit Rating Agencies have indicated that they may ultimately
conclude that the safe harbor no longer applies and, in certain cases, that the highest rating an asset-backed security (ABS) could receive would be based on the sponsoring bank’s unsecured debt rating, rather than relying on their separate
evaluation of the securitization trust. Accordingly, the ability of the Company’s securitization programs to receive or maintain AAA ratings on ABS securities under the same terms and conditions as it has done in the past, or at all, is subject
to uncertainty. Any action by the rating agencies as described above could adversely impact the Company’s ability to utilize ABS as a source of funding for its business. 
LIQUIDITY STRATEGY 
The Company seeks to ensure that it has adequate liquidity in
the form of cash and readily-marketable securities easily convertible into cash, to satisfy all maturing funding obligations for a 12 month period, in addition to having access to significant additional contingent liquidity sources. This objective
is managed by regularly accessing capital through a broad and diverse set of funding programs, by maintaining a portfolio of cash and readily-marketable securities, as well as a variety of contingent sources of cash and financing. The Company
maintains a liquidity plan that enables it to continuously meet its financing obligations even when access to its primary funding sources become impaired or markets become inaccessible. 
In addition to its cash and readily-marketable securities, the Company continues to maintain a variety of contingent liquidity resources,
such as access to secured borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco through the Federal Reserve discount window and committed bank credit facilities. 
As a result of the Company’s funding activities during 2009, the Company raised funds that substantially exceeded its 2009 funding needs. The excess increased the amount of cash and
readily-marketable securities the Company holds. 
43 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s cash and readily-marketable securities available to fund maturities were as follows:

(Billions)
Total
Cash
19.0
(a)
Readily-marketable securities
13.3
(b)
Cash and readily marketable securities
32.3
Less:
Operating cash
(3.2
(c)
Short-term obligations outstanding
(3.2
(d)
Cash and readily-marketable securities available to fund maturities
25.9
(a)
Includes cash and cash equivalents of $15.5 billion and $3.5 billion held in other assets and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for certain
forthcoming asset-backed securitization maturities in the first quarter of 2010. 
(b)
Consists of certain available-for-sale investment securities (U.S. Treasury and agency securities, and government-guaranteed debt) that are considered highly liquid.

(c)
Cash on hand for day-to-day operations. 
(d)
Consists of commercial paper, and U.S. retail CDs with original maturities of three and six months. 
The upcoming approximate maturities of the Company’s long-term unsecured debt, debt issued in connection with off-balance sheet securitizations, and
long-term customer deposits are as follows: 
(Billions)
Debt Maturities
Quarter Ending:
Unsecured
Debt
Asset-Backed
Securitizations
Certificates
of Deposit
Total
March 31, 2010
0.5
4.5
0.8
5.8
June 30, 2010
2.6
1.8
4.4
September 30, 2010
0.9
2.4
0.2
3.5
December 31, 2010
3.4
1.5
1.6
6.5
Total
7.4
10.2
2.6
20.2
The Company’s funding needs for 2010 are expected to arise from these debt and deposit maturities as well as changes in business needs, primarily changes in outstanding cardmember loans and receivables. 
The Company considers various factors in determining the amount of liquidity it maintains, such as economic and financial market conditions,
seasonality in business operations, growth in its businesses, the cost and availability of alternative liquidity sources, and regulatory and Credit Rating Agency considerations. 
The yield the Company receives on its cash and readily-marketable securities is, generally, less than the interest expense on the sources of
funding for these balances. Thus, the Company incurs substantial net interest costs on these amounts. The level of net interest costs will be dependent on the size of its cash and readily-marketable securities holdings, as well as the difference
between its cost of funding these amounts and their investment yields. 
Cash and Readily-Marketable Securities 
As of December 31, 2009, the Company held, as part of its contingent liquidity plan, a total of $19.0 billion of short-term instruments and $13.3
billion of longer-term readily-marketable securities. These investments are of high credit quality, highly liquid short-term instruments and longer-term, highly liquid instruments, such as U.S. Treasury securities, government-sponsored entity debt,
or government-guaranteed debt. These instruments are managed to either mature prior to the maturity of borrowings that will occur within the next 12 months, or are sufficiently liquid that the Company can sell them or enter into sale/repurchase
agreements to immediately raise cash proceeds to meet liquidity needs. 
Federal Reserve Discount Window 
The Banks are insured depository institutions that have the capability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, subject to the amount of
qualifying collateral that they pledge. The Banks are approved to access the discount window, subject to the discretion of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and sufficient credit and charge card receivables pledged as collateral, thereby
providing them with an additional source of liquidity, if needed. 
The Company had approximately $33.2 billion as of
December 31, 2009, in U.S. credit card loans and charge card receivables that could be sold over time through its existing securitization trusts, or pledged in return for secured borrowings to provide further liquidity, subject in each case to
applicable market conditions and eligibility criteria. 
Committed Bank Credit Facilities 
The Company maintained committed bank credit facilities as of December 31, 2009 as follows: 
(Billions)
Parent
Company
Credco
Centurion
Bank
FSB
Total
Committed
(a)
1.3
10.1
0.4
0.4
12.2
Outstanding
3.2
3.2
(a)
Committed lines were supplied by 34 financial institutions as of year end. However, effective January 20, 2010, the agreements in which Aurora Bank FSB (previously
Lehman Brothers Bank FSB) participated, were amended, and their participation waived. This reduced the total committed lines by $175 million. 
44 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The Company’s committed facilities expire as follows: 
(Billions)
2010
2.0
2011
3.4
2012
6.8
Total
12.2
The availability of the credit lines is subject to the Company’s compliance with certain financial covenants, including the maintenance by the Company of consolidated tangible net worth of at least $4.1 billion, the maintenance by
Credco of a 1.25 ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges, and the compliance by the Banks with applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s consolidated tangible net worth
was approximately $11.6 billion, Credco’s ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges was 1.59 and Centurion Bank and FSB each exceeded their regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. 
Committed bank credit facilities do not contain material adverse change clauses, which may preclude borrowing under the credit facilities.
The facilities may not be terminated should there be a change in the Company’s credit rating. 
In consideration of all the
funding sources described above, the Company believes it would have access to liquidity to satisfy all maturing funding obligations for at least a 12-month period in the event that access to the secured and unsecured fixed income capital markets is
completely interrupted for that length of time. These events are not considered likely to occur. 
Parent Company Funding

Parent Company long-term debt outstanding was $10.2 billion and $7.9 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During
2009, the Parent Company issued $1.25 billion of 7.25 percent fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2014 and $1.75 billion of 8.13 percent fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2019. 
The Parent Company is authorized to issue commercial paper. This program is supported by a $1.25 billion multi-purpose committed bank credit facility. The credit facility will expire in 2010 and 2012 in
the amounts of $500 million and $750 million, respectively. There was no Parent Company commercial paper outstanding during 2009 and 2008, and no borrowings have been made under its bank credit facility. 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 
The Company has identified both on- and off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements, obligations, and other relationships that may have a material current or future effect on its financial condition,
changes in financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity and capital resources. 
45 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 
The table below identifies transactions that represent contractually committed future obligations of the Company. Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods and services that are
enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. 
Payments due by year
(Millions)
2010
2011–2012
2013–2014
2015 and
thereafter
Total
(a)
Long-term debt
10,829
17,986
12,766
10,757
52,338
Interest payments on long-term debt
(b)
1,556
2,589
1,636
3,812
9,593
Other long-term liabilities
(c)
21
21
15
94
151
Operating lease obligations
254
422
345
1,316
2,337
Purchase obligations
(d)
550
144
55
69
818
Total
13,210
21,162
14,817
16,048
65,237
(a)
The above table excludes approximately $1.1 billion of tax liabilities that have been recorded in accordance with GAAP governing the accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes as inherent complexities and the number of tax years currently open for examination in multiple jurisdictions do not permit reasonable estimates of payments, if any, to be made over a range of years. 
(b)
Estimated interest payments were calculated using the effective interest rate in place at December 31, 2009, and reflects the effect of existing interest rate
swaps. Actual cash flows may differ from estimated payments. 
(c)
At December 31, 2009, there were no minimum required contributions, and no contributions are currently planned, for the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan. For
the U.S. American Express Supplemental Retirement Plan and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans, contributions in 2010 are anticipated to be approximately $88 million, and this amount has been included within other
long-term liabilities. Remaining obligations under defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans aggregating $642 million have not been included in the table above as the timing of such obligations is not determinable. Additionally, other
long-term liabilities do not include $4.3 billion of Membership Rewards liabilities, which are not considered long-term liabilities as cardmembers in good standing can redeem points immediately, without restrictions, and because the timing of point
redemption is not determinable. 
(d)
The purchase obligation amounts represent non-cancelable minimum contractual obligations by period under contracts that were in effect at December 31, 2009.
Termination fees are included in these amounts. 
The Company
also has certain contingent obligations to make payments under contractual agreements entered into as part of the ongoing operation of the Company’s business, primarily with co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such arrangements
were approximately $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2009. 
In addition to the contractual obligations noted above, the
Company has off-balance sheet arrangements that include guarantees, retained interests in structured investments, unconsolidated variable interest entities and other off-balance sheet arrangements as more fully described below. 
GUARANTEES 
The Company’s
principal guarantees are associated with cardmember services to enhance the value of owning an American Express card. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had guarantees totaling approximately $67 billion related to cardmember protection plans,
as well as other guarantees in the ordinary course of business that are within the scope of GAAP governing the accounting for guarantees. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Company’s
guarantees. 
CERTAIN OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET
ARRANGEMENTS 
As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $222 billion of unused credit available to cardmembers as part of
established lending product agreements. Total unused credit available to cardmembers does not represent potential future cash requirements, as a significant portion of this unused credit will likely not be drawn. The Company’s charge card
products have no pre-set limit and, therefore, are not reflected in unused credit available to cardmembers. As discussed in the Consolidated Liquidity and Capital Resources section, the Company’s securitizations of cardmember loans are also
off-balance sheet. The Company’s cardmember receivables securitizations remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Refer
to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion regarding the Company’s other off-balance sheet arrangements. 
46 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
GOVERNANCE 
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board approves the Company’s
Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy, which defines risk management objectives, risk appetite, risk limits and escalation triggers, and establishes the internal governance structure for managing risk. The Policy focuses on the major risks that are
relevant to the Company given its business model – credit risk (institutional and individual), operational risk, market risk and reputational risk. Internal management committees, including the Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC),
chaired by the Company’s Chief Risk Officer, and the Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO), chaired by the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, are responsible for implementing the Policy across the Company. 
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 
Credit risk is defined as the risk of loss due to obligor or counterparty default. Credit risks in the Company are divided into two broad categories: individual and institutional. Each has distinct risk management tools and metrics.
Business units that create individual or institutional credit risk exposures of significant importance are supported by dedicated risk management teams, each led by Chief Credit Officers. To preserve independence, Chief Credit Officers for all
business units have a solid line reporting relationship to the Company’s Chief Risk Officer. 
INDIVIDUAL CREDIT RISK

Individual credit risk arises principally from consumer and small business charge cards, credit cards, lines of credit, and loans. These
portfolios consist of millions of borrowers across multiple geographies, occupations, industries and levels of net worth. The Company benefits from the attractive profile of its cardmembers, which is driven by brand, underwriting, and customer
management policies, premium customer servicing, and product reward features. The risk in these portfolios is correlated with broad economic trends, such as unemployment rates, GDP growth, and home values, as well as customer liquidity, which can
have a material effect on credit performance. 
General principles and the overall framework for managing individual credit risk
across the Company are defined in the Individual Credit Risk Policy approved by the ERMC. The Credit Policy Committee is responsible for implementation and enforcement of this policy and for providing guidance to the Underwriting and Credit Strategy
Committees as well as to the Chief Credit Officers of respective business units. This policy is further supported by subordinate policies and practices covering all facets of credit extension, including prospecting, approvals, authorizations, line
management, collections, and fraud prevention. These policies are designed to assure consistent application of risk management principles and standardized reporting of asset quality and loss recognition. 
Individual credit risk management is supported by sophisticated proprietary scoring and decision-making models that use the most up-to-date
proprietary information on customers, such as spending and payment history, data feeds from credit bureaus, and mortgage information. Additional data, such as home value and other new commercial variables designed to better manage small business
risk, were integrated into the Company’s models in the early stages of the recent economic downturn to further mitigate risk. The Company has developed unique decision logic for each customer interaction, including prospect targeting, new
account approvals, line assignment, balance transfers, cross selling and overall account management and collection. 
INSTITUTIONAL CREDIT RISK 
Institutional credit risk arises principally within the Company’s Global Corporate Card
Services, Merchant Services and Network Services businesses, and from the Company’s investment activities. Unlike individual credit risk, institutional credit risk is characterized by a lower loss frequency but higher severity. It is affected
both by general economic conditions and by company-specific events. The absence of large losses in any given year or over several years is not necessarily representative of the level of risk of institutional portfolios, given the infrequency of loss
events in such portfolios. 
General principles and the overall framework for managing institutional credit risk across the
Company are defined in the Institutional Credit Risk Policy approved by the ERMC. The Institutional Risk Management Committee (IRMC) is responsible for implementation and enforcement of this policy and for providing guidance to the credit officers
of each business unit with substantial institutional credit risk exposures, who in turn make investment decisions in core risk capabilities, ensure proper implementation of the underwriting standards and contractual rights of risk mitigation,
monitor risk exposures, and determine risk mitigation actions. The IRMC formally reviews large institutional exposures to ensure compliance with ERMC guidelines and procedures and escalates them to the ERMC as appropriate. At the same time, the IRMC
provides guidance to business unit risk teams to optimize risk-adjusted returns on capital. A company-wide risk rating utility and a specialized airline risk group provide risk assessment of institutional obligors. 
MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 
Market risk is the risk to earnings or value resulting from movements in market prices. The Company’s market risk exposure is primarily generated by: 
Interest rate risk in its card, insurance and Travelers Cheque businesses, as well as its investment portfolios; and 
Foreign exchange risk in its international operations. 
47 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
General principles and the overall framework for managing market risk across the Company are defined in the Market Risk Policy, which is the
responsibility of the ALCO. Market Risk limits and escalation triggers within that policy are approved by ALCO and by the ERMC. Market risk is centrally monitored for compliance with policy and limits by the Market Risk Committee, which reports into
the ALCO and is chaired by the Chief Market Risk Officer. Market risk management is also guided by policies covering the use of derivative financial instruments, funding and liquidity and investments. Derivative financial instruments derive their
value from an underlying variable or multiple variables, including interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity indices or prices. These instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to various market risks and, for that reason,
are an integral component of the Company’s market risk management. Use of derivative financial instruments is incorporated into the discussion below as well as Note 12. 
The Company’s market exposures are in large part by-products of the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate risk arises
through the funding of cardmember receivables and fixed-rate loans with variable-rate borrowings as well as through the risk to net interest margin from changes in the relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR. 
Interest rate exposure within the Company’s charge card and fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the proportion of total
funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt and deposits compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable- rate or to convert
variable-rate debt to fixed-rate. The Company may change the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding based on changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors. The majority of its cardmember loans, which are linked to a benchmark
rate such as PRIME that can reprice monthly, are funded with variable-rate funding, the majority of which are linked to LIBOR that reprice monthly. 
The Company regularly reviews its interest rate exposure profile and may modify it. Derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps, with notional amounts of approximately $17 billion and
$18 billion were outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These derivatives generally qualify for hedge accounting. A portion of these derivatives outstanding as of December 31, 2009, extend to 2018. The Company does not
engage in derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
The detrimental effect on the Company’s pretax earnings
of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would be approximately $117 million ($75 million related to the U.S. dollar), based on the 2009 year-end positions. This effect, which is calculated using a static asset liability gapping
model, is primarily determined by the volume of variable-rate funding of charge card and fixed-rate lending products for which the interest rate exposure is not managed by derivative financial instruments. As of year end 2009, the percentage of
total worldwide managed loans that were deemed to be fixed-rate was 34 percent, with the remaining 66 percent deemed to be variable rate. 
The Company is also subject to market risk from changes in the relationship between the benchmark Prime rate that determines the yield on its variable-rate lending receivables and the benchmark LIBOR rate
that determines the effective interest cost on a significant portion of its outstanding debt, including asset securitizations. Simultaneous and identically-sized changes in the same direction of these two indices do not contribute to the market risk
described above, as there is no material mismatch in the effective repricing frequency of these two indices. However, differences in the rate of change of these two indices, commonly referred to as basis risk, would impact the Company’s
variable-rate U.S. lending net interest margins because the Company borrows at rates based on LIBOR but lends to its customers based on the Prime rate. The detrimental effect on the Company’s pretax earnings of a hypothetical 10 basis point
decrease in the spread between Prime and 1 month LIBOR over the next 12 months is estimated to be $38 million. The Company currently has approximately $38.2 billion of Prime-based, variable-rate U.S. lending receivables that are funded with
LIBOR-indexed debt, including asset securitizations. The spread relationship has been more volatile over the last 2
 1
2
 years than in preceding historical periods. For example, the spread experienced during the fourth quarter of 2008 was very low by historical standards and reduced net interest
margins; during the fourth quarter of 2009, the spread was high by historical standards, which had the effect of temporarily increasing the Company’s net interest margin from prior periods. 
Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency charges, foreign subsidiary equity and foreign currency earnings in
international units. The Company’s foreign exchange risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements to buy and sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this market exposure to the extent it is economically justified through various
means, including the use of derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forwards, options, and cross-currency swap contracts, which can help “lock in” the value of the Company’s exposure to specific currencies.

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, foreign currency hedge instruments with total notional amounts of approximately $19
billion and $17 billion, respectively, were outstanding. Derivative hedging activities related to cross-currency charges, balance sheet exposures, and foreign currency earnings generally do not qualify for hedge accounting; however, derivative
hedging activities related to translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity generally do. 
With respect to cross-currency
charges and balance sheet exposures, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, the effect on the Company’s earnings

48 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

of a hypothetical 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar would be immaterial as of December 31, 2009. With respect to earnings denominated in foreign currencies, the adverse
impact on pretax income of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar related to anticipated overseas operating results for the next 12 months would be approximately $112 million as of December 31, 2009. With respect to
translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening in the U.S. dollar would result in an immaterial reduction in equity as of
December 31, 2009. 
The actual impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes will depend on, among other
factors, the timing of rate changes, the extent to which different rates do not move in the same direction or in the same direction to the same degree, and changes in the volume and mix of the Company’s businesses. 
FUNDING & LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 
Funding & liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy the Company’s obligations. General principles and the
overall framework for managing liquidity risk across the Company are defined in the Liquidity Risk Policy, which is the responsibility of the ALCO. The Company balances the trade-offs between maintaining too much liquidity, which can be costly and
limit financial flexibility, with having inadequate liquidity, which may result in financial distress during a liquidity event. Liquidity risk is centrally managed by the Funding and Liquidity Committee, which reports into the ALCO and is chaired by
the Corporate Treasurer. The Company has developed a liquidity plan that enables it to meet its daily cash obligations when access to both unsecured and secured funds in the debt capital markets is impaired or unavailable. This plan is designed to
ensure that the Company and all of its main operating entities could continuously meet their maturing debt obligations for a 12-month period in which their access to all capital markets and deposit financing is interrupted. 
Liquidity risk is managed both at an aggregate company level and at the major legal entities in order to ensure that sufficient funding and
liquidity resources are available in the amount and in the location needed in a stress event. The Funding and Liquidity Committee manages the forecasts of the Company’s aggregate and subsidiary cash positions and financing requirements, the
funding plans designed to satisfy those requirements under normal conditions, establishes guidelines to identify the amount of liquidity resources required, and monitors positions and determines any actions to be taken. Liquidity planning also takes
into account operating cash flexibilities. 
OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 
The Company defines operational risk as the risk of not achieving business objectives due
to inadequate or failed processes or information systems, human error or the external environment (e.g., natural disasters) including losses due to failures to comply with laws and regulations. Operational risk is inherent in all business activities
and can impact an organization through direct or indirect financial loss, brand damage, customer dissatisfaction, or legal or regulatory penalties. Current areas of significant focus include data protection, anti-money laundering, vendor risk,
impact of organizational change, financial reporting risk and both internal and external fraud. 
The general principles and the
overall framework for managing operational risk across the Company are defined in the Operational Risk Policy approved by the ERMC. The Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC) provides governance for the operational risk framework. 
In order to appropriately measure operational risk, the Company has developed a comprehensive operational risk model. This model assesses
(i) risk events, i.e. what occurred or could have occurred; (ii) root causes, i.e. why did it occur or could have occurred; and (iii) impact, i.e. how was the Company affected or might have been affected. The impact on the Company is
assessed from a financial, brand, regulatory and legal perspective. The operational risk model also assesses the frequency and likelihood that events may occur again so that the appropriate mitigation steps may be taken. 
Additionally, the Company uses an operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor, and report inherent and emerging operational
risks. This framework consists of a) the ORMC oversight, b) an operational risk event capture process, and c) process and entity-level risk self-assessments. 
The process risk self-assessment methodology is used to facilitate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and is also used for non-financial operational risk self- assessments. This
methodology involves identifying key processes across the Company and then determining the inherent operational risks. Once these risks have been identified, the existing control environment is defined, key controls are tested and relevant issues
are escalated to the appropriate governing bodies. 
The operational risk framework also includes the entity risk
self-assessment. This is a risk workshop where senior leaders identify the key operational risks that the business unit or support group faces and determines the Company’s preparedness to respond should these risks occur. Top risks are tracked
to ensure that the appropriate monitoring or mitigation is in place. 
Managing enterprise risk is an important priority for the
Company and the program continues to evolve. 
49 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS 
The Company is a global service company principally engaged in businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services (USCS), International Card Services (ICS), Global Commercial
Services (GCS) and Global Network & Merchant Services (GNMS). 
The Company considers a combination of factors when
evaluating the composition of its reportable operating segments, including the results reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes of customers, product distribution channels,
geographic considerations (primarily U.S. versus international), and regulatory environment considerations. Refer to Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of products and services by segment. 
Results of the business segments essentially treat each segment as a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives
these results allocates income and expense using various methodologies as described below. 
TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST
EXPENSE 
The Company allocates discount revenue and certain other revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology. Segments earn
discount revenue based on the volume of merchant business generated by cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS, and GCS segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the overall discount rate; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue
reflects the network and merchant component of the overall discount rate. Total interest income and net card fees are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. 
PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 
The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the
segment in which they are reported. 
EXPENSES 
Marketing and promotion expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of brand advertising, which is primarily reflected in the GNMS and USCS segments.
Rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred within each segment. 
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, such as professional services, occupancy and equipment and communications, reflect expenses incurred directly within each segment. In addition, expenses related to the
Company’s support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to each segment based on support service activities directly attributable to the segment. Other overhead expenses, such as staff group support functions, are allocated to
segments based on each segment’s relative level of pretax income. Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis. Funding costs are allocated based on segment funding requirements. 
CAPITAL 
Each business segment is allocated capital based on established business model operating requirements, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements.
Business model operating requirements include capital needed to support operations and specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include considerations for credit, market, and operational risk. 
INCOME TAXES 
Income tax provision
(benefit) is allocated to each business segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to various businesses that make up the segment. 
U.S. CARD SERVICES 
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA GAAP BASIS PRESENTATION 
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Revenues
Discount revenue, net card fees and other
9,125
10,357
10,243
Securitization income, net
400
1,070
1,507
Interest income
3,221
4,736
5,125
Interest expense
855
2,166
2,653
Net interest income
2,366
2,570
2,472
Total revenues net of interest expense
11,891
13,997
14,222
Provisions for losses
3,769
4,389
2,998
Total revenues net of interest expense after provision for losses
8,122
9,608
11,224
Expenses
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
4,266
4,837
5,140
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
3,532
3,630
3,354
Total
7,798
8,467
8,494
Pretax segment income
324
1,141
2,730
Income tax provision
75
289
907
Segment income
249
852
1,823
50 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION
a
As of or for the Years Ended December 31,
(Billions, except percentages
and where indicated)
2009
2008
2007
Card billed business
339.4
382.0
375.2
Total cards-in-force 
(millions)
39.5
44.2
43.3
Basic cards-in-force 
(millions)
29.5
32.9
32.3
Average basic cardmember spending 
(dollars)
10,957
11,594
12,011
U.S. Consumer Travel:
Travel sales 
(millions)
2,561
3,113
2,975
Travel commissions and fees/sales
8.4
8.2
8.0
Total segment assets
57.9
77.8
82.3
Segment capital 
(millions)
(b)
6,510
4,788
4,454
Return on average segment capital
(c)
4.5
18.0
40.2
Return on average tangible segment capital
(c)
4.8
19.0
41.8
Cardmember receivables:
Total receivables
17.8
17.8
21.4
30 days past due as a % of total
1.8
3.7
N/A
Average receivables
16.1
19.2
19.7
Net write-off rate
(d)
3.8
3.6
N/A
Cardmember loans — owned basis
(e)
Total loans
23.5
32.7
43.3
30 days past due loans as a % of total
3.7
4.7
2.8
Average loans
25.9
36.7
37.1
Net write-off rate
9.1
5.8
3.1
Net interest income divided by average loans
(f)(h)
9.1
7.0
6.7
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
(f)
9.0
8.5
8.9
Cardmember loans — managed basis
(g)
Total loans
52.6
62.4
65.9
30 days past due loans as a % of total
3.7
4.7
2.8
Average loans
54.9
64.0
58.2
Net write-off rate
8.7
5.5
3.1
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
(f)(g)
9.9
9.1
9.1
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements. 
(c)
Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) segment income ($249 million, $852 million and $1.8 billion for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively)
by (ii) average segment capital ($5.6 billion, $4.7 billion and $4.5 billion for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital is computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the
computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of $432 million, $243 million and $170 million at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company believes the return on average
tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business. 
(d)
In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in USCS are written off to 180 days past due, consistent
with applicable bank regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past billing. The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not reflected in
the table above. If the $341 million had been included in USCS write-offs, the net write-off rate would have been 5.4 percent for 2008. 
(e)
“Owned,” a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(f)
See below for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans presented on an owned basis. The
Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both an owned and managed basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company’s cardmember loans portfolio. 
(g)
Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the “owned basis” (GAAP) information and
“managed basis” information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation.

(h)
This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not
representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense
attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables. 
CALCULATION OF NET
INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS
a
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions, except percentages
and where indicated)
2009
2008
Owned Basis:
Net interest income
2,366
2,570
Average loans (
billions
25.9
36.7
Adjusted net interest income
2,326
3,127
Adjusted average loans (
billions
26.0
36.8
Net interest income divided by average loans
9.1
7.0
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
9.0
8.5
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
51 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 – GAAP BASIS

The following discussion of USCS segment results of operations is presented on a GAAP basis. 
USCS reported segment income of $249 million for 2009, a $603 million or 71 percent decrease from $852 million in 2008, which decreased
$971million or 53 percent from 2007. 
Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense 
In 2009, USCS total revenues net of interest expense decreased $2.1 billion or 15 percent to $11.9 billion due to lower securitization income, net, decreased
interest income and lower discount revenue, net card fees and other, partially offset by lower interest expense. Discount revenue, net card fees and other of $9.1 billion in 2009 decreased $1.2 billion or 12 percent from 2008, due to lower billed
business volumes, reduced other commissions and fees, decreased net card fees, lower other revenues and reduced travel commissions and fees. The decrease in billed business reflected a 10 percent decrease in basic cards-in-force and a 5 percent
decline in average basic cardmember spending. In 2009 within USCS, small business and consumer billed business volumes declined 13 percent and 10 percent, respectively. Interest income of $3.2 billion in 2009 was $1.5 billion or 32 percent lower
than in 2008, primarily due to lower portfolio yields and a decrease in average owned lending balances. Interest expense of $855 million in 2009 decreased $1.3 billion or 61 percent as compared to a year ago, primarily due to lower market interest
rate-driven cost of funds and reduced average owned cardmember loans and receivable balances. Total revenues net of interest expense of $14.0 billion in 2008 were $225 million or 2 percent lower than 2007 as a result of lower securitization income,
net, decreased other commissions and fees and lower interest income, partially offset by slightly higher discount revenue, net card fees and other, as well as lower interest expense. 
Provisions for Losses 
Provisions for losses decreased $620 million or 14 percent
to $3.8 billion for 2009 compared to 2008, due to lower loan balances and improving credit indicators during the second half of 2009. The lending net write-off rate increased in the first half of the year and then began to improve in the third and
fourth quarter. Past due rates rose early in the year but then showed improvement through the remainder of the year commencing in the second quarter. The write-off and past due rates reflect in part targeted efforts to manage credit performance such
as reducing high loan balances, as well as the impact of customer assistance programs, including the re-aging of cardmember accounts meeting certain criteria. 
Provisions for losses increased $1.4 billion or 46 percent to $4.4 billion for 2008 compared to 2007 due to higher write-off and delinquency rates in the lending and charge portfolios reflecting the
challenging U.S. credit environment. 
Expenses

During 2009, USCS’ expenses decreased $669 million or 8 percent to $7.8 billion, due to lower marketing, promotion, rewards and
cardmember services expenses and lower salaries and employee benefits and total operating expenses. Expenses in 2009, 2008, and 2007, included $12 million, $30 million, and $13 million, respectively, of charges related to reengineering activities
primarily related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously discussed and reengineering activities within consumer and small business services in 2007. Expenses in 2008 of $8.5 billion were $27 million or less
than 1 percent lower than in 2007, due to lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses, partially offset by greater salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, net. 
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $571 million or 12 percent in 2009 to $4.3 billion, due to lower
rewards costs, reduced marketing and promotion expenses and the Delta-related charge to the Membership Reward balance sheet reserve in the fourth quarter of 2008. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $303 million
or 6 percent in 2008 to $4.8 billion, due to the Membership Rewards related charge in 2007 noted above, the incremental business-building expenses in 2007 compared to lower marketing and promotion expenses in 2008, partially offset by the
Delta-related charge in 2008 to increase the Membership Rewards liability and higher volume-related rewards costs. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses of $3.5 billion in 2009 decreased $98 million or 3 percent from 2008,
reflecting the benefits from reengineering activities, lower net charges associated with these reengineering programs, the favorable impact in 2008 related to fair value hedge ineffectiveness and the costs related to the Delta contract extension in
the fourth quarter of 2008. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses of $3.6 billion in 2008 increased $276 million or 8 percent from 2007. The increase was due to higher software, operations, technology and credit and collection
costs, the pension-related gain in 2007 and costs related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2008. 
Income
Taxes 
The effective tax rate was 23 percent for 2009 compared to 25 percent and 33 percent for 2008 and 2007, respectively. The rates for each
of these years reflect tax benefits related to the resolution of certain prior years’ tax items. 
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN GAAP
AND MANAGED BASIS PRESENTATION 
Due to changes in GAAP governing the accounting for transfers of financial assets effective January 1,
2010 that will result in the consolidation of the Lending Trust, the presentation of financial and statistical information on a

52 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

GAAP and managed basis as described below will no longer be applicable beginning in 2010. 
For USCS, the managed basis presentation assumes that there have been no off-balance sheet securitization transactions, i.e., all securitized cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected as
if they were in the Company’s balance sheets and income statements, respectively. For the managed basis presentation, revenue and expenses related to securitized cardmember loans are reflected in other commissions and fees (included in discount
revenue, net card fees and other in the USCS Selected Financial Information), interest income, interest expense, and provisions for losses. On a managed basis, there is no securitization income, net as the managed basis presentation assumes no
securitization transactions have occurred. 
The Company presents USCS information on a managed basis because that is the way
the Company’s management views and manages the business. Management believes that a full picture of trends in the Company’s cardmember loans business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized
cardmember loans. Management also believes that use of a managed basis presentation presents a more accurate picture of the key dynamics of the cardmember loans business. Irrespective of the on- and off-balance sheet funding mix, it is important for
management and investors to see metrics for the entire cardmember loans portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also
important for investors to see the overall growth of cardmember loans and related revenue in order to evaluate market share. These metrics are significant in evaluating the Company’s performance and can only be properly assessed when all
non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans are viewed together on a managed basis. The Company does not currently securitize international loans. 
On a GAAP basis, revenue and expenses from securitized cardmember loans are reflected in the Company’s income statements in securitization income, net, fees and commissions, and provisions for losses
for cardmember loans. At the time of a securitization transaction, the securitized cardmember loans are removed from the Company’s balance sheet, and the resulting gain on sale is reflected in securitization income, net as well as an impact to
provisions for losses (credit reserves are no longer recorded for the cardmember loans once sold). Over the life of a securitization transaction, the Company recognizes servicing fees and other net revenues (referred to as “excess spread”)
related to the interests sold to investors (i.e., the investors’ interests). These amounts, in addition to changes in the fair value of interest-only strips, are reflected in securitization income, net and fees and commissions. The Company also
recognizes total interest income over the life of the securitization transaction related to the interest it retains (i.e., the seller’s interest). At the maturity of a securitization transaction, cardmember loans on the balance sheet increase,
and the impact of the incremental required loss reserves is recorded in provisions for losses. 
As presented, in aggregate over
the life of a securitization transaction, the pretax income impact to the Company is the same whether or not the Company had securitized cardmember loans or funded these loans through other financing activities (assuming the same financing costs).
The income statement classifications, however, of specific items will differ. 
U.S. CARD SERVICES 
SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGED BASIS PRESENTATION 
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Discount revenue, net card fees and other:
Reported for the period (GAAP)
9,125
10,357
10,243
Securitization adjustments
(a)
331
400
310
Managed discount revenue, net card fees and other
9,456
10,757
10,553
Interest income:
Reported for the period (GAAP)
3,221
4,736
5,125
Securitization adjustments
(a)
3,097
3,512
3,130
Managed interest income
6,318
8,248
8,255
Securitization income, net:
Reported for the period (GAAP)
400
1,070
1,507
Securitization adjustments
(a)
(400
(1,070
(1,507
Managed securitization income, net
Interest expense:
Reported for the period (GAAP)
855
2,166
2,653
Securitization adjustments
(a)
244
830
1,136
Managed interest expense
1,099
2,996
3,789
Provisions for losses:
Reported for the period (GAAP)
3,769
4,389
2,998
Securitization adjustments
(a)
2,573
2,002
871
Managed provisions for losses
6,342
6,391
3,869
(a)
Refer to discussion of Differences Between GAAP and Managed Basis Presentation above. 
53 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
CALCULATION OF NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS
a
b
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions, except percentages
and where indicated)
2009
2008
Managed Basis
(b)
Net interest income
(c)
5,219
5,252
Average loans (
billions
54.9
64.0
Adjusted net interest income
5,435
5,809
Adjusted average loans (
billions
55.0
64.1
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
9.9 
9.1
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
Refer to Calculation of Net Interest Yield on Cardmember Loans – “Owned Basis” on page 33 for calculation of the ratio of net interest income
divided by average loans presented on an owned basis. 
(c)
Includes the GAAP to managed basis securitization adjustments to interest income and interest expense as set forth under USCS Selected Financial Information managed
basis presentation. 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 – MANAGED BASIS

The following discussion of USCS is on a managed basis. 
Discount revenue, net card fees and other in 2009 decreased $1.3 billion or 12 percent to $9.5 billion, due to lower billed business volumes, reduced other commissions and fees, decreased net card fees,
lower other revenues and reduced travel commissions and fees. Discount revenue, net card fees and other in 2008 increased $204 million or 2 percent to $10.8 billion, largely due to higher net card fees, greater other revenues, higher travel
commissions and fees, and increased discount revenues, which were partially offset by lower other commissions and fees. Interest income in 2009 of $6.3 billion decreased by $1.9 billion or 23 percent, due to a decline in the average managed lending
balance and a lower portfolio yield, offset by the benefits of certain repricing initiatives during 2009. Interest income in 2008 of $8.2 billion remained flat as lower market interest rate-driven yields more than offset the 10 percent growth in
average managed lending balances. Interest expense in 2009 decreased $1.9 billion or 63 percent to $1.1 billion, due to a lower market interest rate-driven cost of funds and lower average managed cardmember loans and receivable balances, as well as
the movement of liquidity-related interest expense to the Corporate & Other segment. In 2008, interest expense decreased $793 million or 21 percent to $3.0 billion due to a lower market interest rate-driven cost of funds, which more than
offset higher average managed receivable balances. Provisions for losses decreased 1 percent in 2009, driven by a lower average loan and receivable balance and improved charge card credit performance, partially offset by a higher lending write-off
level versus 2008. Provisions for losses increased $2.5 billion or 65 percent to $6.4 billion in 2008, reflecting the impact of higher write-off and delinquency rates and higher average managed loan balances, partially offset by the credit-related
charge in 2007. 
INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES 
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA 
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Revenues
Discount revenue, net card fees and other
3,404
3,758
3,499
Interest income
1,588
1,984
1,741
Interest expense
509
961
909
Net interest income
1,079
1,023
832
Total revenues net of interest expense
4,483
4,781
4,331
Provisions for losses
1,211
1,030
812
Total revenues net of interest expense after provision for losses
3,272
3,751
3,519
Expenses
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
1,221
1,453
1,566
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
1,821
2,145
1,836
Total
3,042
3,598
3,402
Pretax segment income
230
153
117
Income tax benefit
(73
(198
(174
Segment income
303
351
291
54 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION
a
As of or for the Years Ended December 31,
(Billions, except percentages
and
where indicated)
2009
2008
2007
Card billed business
94.9
106.1
98.0
Total cards-in-force
 (millions)
15.0
16.3
16.0
Basic cards-in-force
 (millions)
10.5
11.4
11.3
Average basic cardmember spending 
(dollars)
8,758
9,292
8,772
International Consumer Travel:
Travel sales 
(millions)
985
1,267
1,113
Travel commissions and fees/sales
8.6
8.1
8.6
Total segment assets
20.4
20.4
21.4
Segment capital 
(millions)
(b)
2,164
1,997
2,062
Return on average segment capital
(c)
14.3
16.7
15.3
Return on average tangible segment capital
(c)
19.3
22.5
21.4
Cardmember receivables:
Total receivables
5.9
5.6
6.6
90 days past billing as a % of total
(d)
2.1
3.1
1.8
Net loss ratio as a % of charge volume
0.36
0.24
0.26
Cardmember loans:
Total loans
9.2
9.5
11.2
30 days past due loans as a % of total
3.3
3.6
2.8
Average loans
8.9
10.9
10.0
Net write-off rate
6.8
4.8
4.9
Net interest income divided by average loans
(e)(f)
12.1
9.4 
8.3
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
(e)
11.9
9.8
8.9
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements. 
(c)
Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) segment income ($303 million, $351 million, and $291 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007,
respectively) by (ii) average segment capital ($2.1 billion, $2.1 billion, and $1.9 billion for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital is computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital
except the computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of $551 million, $544 million, and $539 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The Company believes the return on
average tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business. 
(d)
A cardmember account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the cardmember’s billing statement date. In addition, if
the Company initiates collection procedures on an account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing, the associated cardmember receivable balance is considered as 90 days past billing. A cardmember account becomes past due if payment is not
received within 30 days after the billing statement date. 
(e)
See below for calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest
yield on cardmember loans is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company’s cardmember loans portfolio. 
(f)
This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not
representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense
attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables. 
CALCULATION OF NET
INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS
a
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions, except percentage
and where indicated)
2009
2008
Net interest income
1,079
1,023
Average loans (
billions
8.9
10.9
Adjusted net interest income
1,065
1,072
Adjusted average loans (
billions
8.9
10.9
Net interest income divided by average loans
12.1
9.4 
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
11.9
9.8
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 
ICS reported segment income of $303 million for 2009, a $48 million or 14 percent decrease from $351 million in 2008, which increased $60 million or 21 percent from 2007. A significant portion of ICS
segment income in 2009 and 2008 is attributable to the Company’s internal tax allocation process. See further discussion in the Income Tax section below. 
Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense 
In 2009, ICS’ total revenues net of
interest expense decreased $298 million or 6 percent to $4.5 billion compared to 2008 due to lower discount revenue, net card fees and other and decreased interest income, partially offset by lower interest expense. Discount revenue, net card fees,
and other revenues decreased $354 million or 9 percent to $3.4 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by the lower level of card spending, decreased other commissions and fees, lower other revenues and reduced travel commissions and
fees, partially offset by an increase in net card fees. The 11 percent decrease

55 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

in billed business in 2009 reflected a 6 percent decrease in average spending per proprietary basic cards-in-force and an 8 percent decrease in basic cards-in-force. Assuming no changes in
foreign currency exchange rates from 2008 to 2009, billed business decreased 4 percent and average spending per proprietary basic cards-in-force increased 1 percent in 2009. Volume comparisons within the major geographic regions ranged from a
low-single-digit increase in Latin America to mid-single-digit decreases in Asia Pacific, Europe and Canada
3
. Interest income declined $396 million or 20 percent to $1.6 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to an 18
percent reduction in average cardmember loans and lower interest on bank and other deposits, partially offset by a higher cardmember loan portfolio yield. Interest expense of $509 million in 2009 declined $452 million or 47 percent, as compared to
2008, due to lower average loan and receivable balances, as well as a decreased cost of funds. Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.8 billion in 2008 were $450 million or 10 percent higher than 2007 due to higher discount revenue, net card
fees and other and increased interest income, partially offset by higher interest expense. 
Provisions for Losses 
Provisions for losses increased $181 million or 18 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily reflecting a higher lending reserve level.
Provisions for losses increased $218 million or 27 percent to $1.0 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to increased reserve levels due to the challenging economic environment and loan and business volume growth. 
Expenses 
During 2009, ICS’
expenses decreased $556 million or 15 percent to $3.0 billion compared to 2008, due to lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services and decreased salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses. Expenses in 2009, 2008, and
2007, included $4 million, $83 million, and $16 million, respectively, of reengineering costs primarily related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously 
3
Refer to footnote 2 on page 34 under Consolidated Results of Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2009 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.

discussed and reengineering in the international payments business for 2007. Expenses in 2008 of $3.6 billion were $196 million
or 6 percent higher than 2007, due to increased salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, partially offset by lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services costs. 
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $232 million or 16 percent to $1.2 billion in 2009 compared to 2008,
reflecting reduced marketing and promotion expenses through the first nine months of 2009 and lower reward costs. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $113 million or 7 percent to $1.5 billion in 2008 compared to
2007, due to the Membership Rewards related charge and the incremental business-building costs in 2007 noted above, which more than offset higher marketing and promotion expenses, and volume-related rewards costs in 2008. Salaries and employee
benefits and other operating expenses decreased $324 million or 15 percent to $1.8 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to benefits from the Company’s reengineering activities and lower net charges during 2009 related to
reengineering initiatives. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $309 million or 17 percent to $2.1 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to higher salaries and employee benefits expense and increased other
operating expenses, which reflected the costs related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2008, as well as greater professional services expense. 
Income Taxes 
The effective tax rate was negative 32 percent in 2009 versus
negative 129 percent in 2008 and negative 149 percent in 2007. ICS includes a tax benefit of $73 million and $198 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, since the Company’s internal tax allocation process provides this segment with the
consolidated benefit related to its ongoing funding activities outside the United States. The tax benefit is likely to continue, because Congress is expected to extend the law that provides the basis for the benefit. 
56 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES 
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA 
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Revenues
Discount revenue, net card fees and other
4,157
5,081
4,697
Interest income
61
168
187
Interest expense
172
553
615
Net interest income
(111
(385
(428
Total revenues net of interest expense
4,046
4,696
4,269
Provisions for losses
177
231
163
Total revenues net of interest expense after provisions for losses
3,869
4,465
4,106
Expenses
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
332
377
387
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
2,969
3,395
2,975
Total
3,301
3,772
3,362
Pretax segment income
568
693
744
Income tax provision
178
188
208
Segment income
390
505
536
SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION
(a)
As of or for the Years Ended December 31,
(Billions, except percentages
and
where indicated)
2009
2008
2007
Card billed business
111.2
129.2
122.1
Total cards-in-force 
(millions)
7.1
7.1
6.8
Basic cards-in-force 
(millions)
7.1
7.1
6.8
Average basic cardmember spending 
(dollars)
15,544
18,527
18,017
Global Corporate Travel:
Travel sales
14.6
21.0
20.5
Travel commissions and fees/sales
8.8
7.8
7.7
Total segment assets
22.9
25.1
21.1
Segment capital 
(millions)
(b)
3,445
3,550
2,239
Return on average segment capital
(c
11.3
15.8
25.3
Return on average tangible segment capital
(c
25.9
34.3
43.3
Cardmember receivables:
Total receivables
9.8
9.4
11.4
90 days past billing as a % of total
(d
1.4
2.7
2.1
Net loss ratio as a % of charge volume
0.19
0.13
0.10
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements. 
(c)
Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) segment income ($390 million, $505 million and $536 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively)
by (ii) average segment capital ($3.4 billion, $3.2 billion and $2.1 billion for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital is computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the
computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of $1.9 billion, $1.7 billion and $881 million at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company believes the return on average
tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business. 
(d)
A cardmember account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the cardmember’s billing statement date. In addition, if
the Company initiates collection procedures on an account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing, the associated cardmember receivable balance is considered as 90 days past billing. A cardmember account becomes past due if payment is not
received within 30 days after the billing statement date. 
57 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 
GCS reported segment income of $390 million for 2009, a $115 million or 23 percent decrease from $505 million in 2008, which decreased $31 million or 6
percent from 2007. 
Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense 
In 2009, GCS’ total revenues net of interest expense decreased $650 million or 14 percent to $4.0 billion due to decreased discount
revenue, net card fees, and other revenues and lower interest income, partially offset by lower interest expense. Discount revenue, net card fees, and other revenues decreased $924 million or 18 percent to $4.2 billion in 2009 primarily driven by
lower travel commissions and fees, the reduced level of card spending, decreased other revenues and reduced other commissions and fees. The 14 percent decrease in billed business in 2009 reflected a 16 percent decrease in average spending per
proprietary basic card. Assuming no changes in foreign currency exchange rates from 2008 to 2009, billed business and average spending per proprietary basic card decreased 11 percent and 13 percent, respectively, in 2009 with volume decreases within
the United States of 11 percent compared to results within the Company’s other major geographic regions ranging from the mid-teen-digit declines in Europe and Asia Pacific, a low-teen-digit decrease in Canada, and a mid-single-digit increase in
Latin America
4
. Interest income decreased $107 million or
64 percent to $61 million in 2009 compared to 2008, driven by lower rates within deposit-related income. Interest expense decreased $381 million or 69 percent to $172 million in 2009 compared to 2008 due to a lower cost of funds and average
receivable balance, partially offset by the cost of funding the CPS acquisition. Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.7 billion in 2008 were $427 million or 10 percent higher than 2007 due to increased discount revenue, net card fees, and
other revenue and lower interest expense. 
Provisions for Losses 
Provisions for losses decreased $54 million or 23 percent to $177 million in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting improved credit trends as 2009 progressed. Provisions for losses increased $68 million or 42
percent to $231 million in 2008 compared to 2007, reflecting higher loss and past due rates due to the challenging economic environment. 
4
Refer to footnote 2 on page 34 under Consolidated Results of Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2009 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.

Expenses 
During 2009 GCS’ expenses decreased $471 million or 12 percent to $3.3 billion, reflecting a reduction of $426 million in salaries and employee benefits
and other operating expenses as described below, as well as lower rewards costs, lower net charges associated with reengineering initiatives in 2009, and the Delta-related increase in the Membership Rewards balance sheet reserve in the fourth
quarter of 2008. Expenses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, included $101 million, $138 million, and $25 million, respectively, of reengineering costs, primarily reflecting the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously discussed
and reengineering costs, primarily in business travel in 2007. Expenses in 2008 of $3.8 billion were $410 million or 12 percent higher than 2007, primarily due to greater salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses. 
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $45 million or 12 percent to $332 million in 2009 compared to 2008,
primarily reflecting lower rewards costs in 2009 and the Delta-related increase in the Membership Rewards balance sheet reserve in the fourth quarter of 2008. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $10 million or 3
percent to $377 million in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to the Membership Rewards related charge in 2007, offset by higher volume-related rewards costs and the Delta-related charge in 2008 to increase the Membership Rewards liability.
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased $426 million or 13 percent to $3.0 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting the benefits from the Company’s reengineering initiatives, partially offset by lower net
charges associated with these programs during 2009. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $420 million or 14 percent to $3.4 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, due to higher other operating expenses and greater
salaries and employee benefits expense, which reflected the impacts of the CPS acquisition, as well as the costs related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2008 and the pension-related gain in 2007. 
Income Taxes 
The effective tax
rate was 31 percent in 2009 versus 27 percent in 2008 and 28 percent in 2007. 
58 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES 
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA 
Years Ended December 31,
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Revenues
Discount revenue, fees and other
3,625
3,875
3,549
Interest income
6
5
3
Interest expense
(85
(222
(312
Net interest income
91
227
315
Total revenues net of interest expense
3,716
4,102
3,864
Provisions for losses
135
127
103
Total revenues net of interest expense after provisions for losses
3,581
3,975
3,761
Expenses
Marketing and promotion
521
553
595
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses
1,679
1,932
1,606
Total
2,200
2,485
2,201
Pretax segment income
1,381
1,490
1,560
Income tax provision
483
495
538
Segment income
898
995
1,022
SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION
a)
As of or for the Years Ended December 31,
(Billions, except percentages
and
where indicated)
2009
2008
2007
Global Card billed business
(b)
619.8
683.3
647.3
Global Network & Merchant Services:
Total segment assets
7.3
7.0
6.5
Segment capital 
(millions)
 (c)
1,764
1,451
1,170
Return on average segment capital
(d)
52.9
75.4
90.7
Return on average tangible segment capital
(d)
54.1
77.4
93.4
Global Network Services:
Card billed business
71.8
67.4
52.9
Total cards-in-force 
(millions)
26.3
24.8
20.3
(a)
See Glossary of Selected Terminology for the definitions of certain key terms and related information. 
(b)
Global Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain
insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. 
(c)
Segment capital at the end of each respective period represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and
regulatory capital requirements. 
(d)
Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) segment income ($898 million, $995 million and $1.0 billion for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively)
by (ii) average segment capital ($1.7 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital is computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the
computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles of $36 million, $35 million and $33 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company believes the return on average
tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business. 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR
THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 
GNMS reported segment income of $898 million in 2009, a $97 million or 10 percent decrease from $995
million in 2008, which decreased $27 million or 3 percent from 2007. 
Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense 
GNMS’ total revenues net of interest expense decreased $386 million or 9 percent to $3.7 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, due to decreased discount
revenue, net card fees and other and decreased interest expense credit. Discount revenue, fees and other revenues decreased $250 million or 6 percent to $3.6 billion in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting a decline in merchant-related revenues, due to
the 9 percent decrease in global card billed business, partially offset by higher GNS-related revenues. Interest expense credit decreased $137 million or 62 percent to $85 million in 2009 compared to 2008, due to a lower rate-driven interest credit
related to internal transfer pricing, which recognizes the merchant services’ accounts payable-related funding benefit. Total revenues net of interest expense of $4.1 billion in 2008 were $238 million or 6 percent higher compared to 2007 due to
increased discount revenue, fees and other revenues offset by lower interest expense credit. 
Provisions for Losses

Provisions for losses increased $8 million or 6 percent to $135 million in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily driven by the higher provisions in
GNS. Provisions for losses in 2008 increased $24 million or 23 percent to $127 million compared to 2007, primarily reflecting merchant-related provisions. 
Expenses 
During 2009, GNMS’ expenses decreased $285 million or 11 percent to
$2.2 billion compared to 2008. Expenses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, included $22 million, $31 million and $6 million of reengineering costs, respectively, primarily related

59 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

to the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2009 and 2008 as previously discussed. Expenses in 2008 of $2.5 billion were $284 million or 13 percent higher than 2007, due to increased
salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, partially offset by a decrease in marketing and promotion expenses. 
Marketing and promotion expenses decreased $32 million or 6 percent to $521 million in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting lower brand and merchant-related marketing costs during the first nine months of 2009. Marketing and promotion expenses
decreased 7 percent in 2008 to $553 million compared to 2007, reflecting lower brand and other marketing and promotion expenses as compared to incremental business-building costs in 2007. 
Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased $253 million or 13 percent to $1.7 billion in 2009 compared to 2008,
primarily reflecting the benefits from the Company’s reengineering initiatives. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $326 million or 20 percent to $1.9 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to
increased merchant-related reserve due to the challenging economic environment, 2007 gains related to the sale of the Company’s merchant-related operations in Russia, greater salaries and employee benefits expense, which reflected the expansion
of the merchant sales force and the costs related to the Company’s reengineering initiatives in 2008 and higher volume-related expenses. 
Income Taxes 
The effective tax rate was 35 percent in 2009, 33 percent in 2008 and 34 percent in 2007. 
CORPORATE & OTHER 
Corporate & Other had net income of $297 million, $168 million and $454 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net income in 2009 reflected the $372 million and $172 million after-tax income related to the MasterCard and
Visa litigation settlements, respectively, and $135 million of after-tax income related to the ICBC sale. 
In the third quarter
of 2009, the Company recorded a $180 million ($113 million after-tax) benefit associated with the Company’s accounting for a net investment in consolidated foreign subsidiaries. $135 million ($85 million after-tax) of this benefit represents
the correction of an error related to the accounting for cumulative translation adjustments in prior periods. The error resulted in a $60 million ($38 million after-tax) income overstatement in the second quarter of 2009, a $135 million ($85 million
after-tax) income understatement in the fourth quarter of 2008 and minimal amounts for all other periods affected dating back to the third quarter of 2007, when the incorrect accounting originated. Also included in the $180 million is a
non-recurring $45 million ($28 million after-tax) related benefit which was recorded in the third quarter of 2009 as a result of changes in the fair value of certain foreign exchange forward contracts that are economic hedges to foreign currency
exposures of net investments in consolidated foreign subsidiaries. Reengineering costs of $35 million after-tax, $108 million after-tax and $4 million after-tax, for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily related to the Company’s
reengineering initiatives previously discussed. 
Net income in 2008 reflected the $186 million and $172 million after-tax
income related to the MasterCard and Visa litigation settlements, respectively, offset by a $19 million after-tax charge primarily relating to the ongoing AEB operations retained by the Company in the first quarter of 2008. 
Net income in 2007 reflected the $700 million after-tax gain resulting from the initial $1.13 billion due March 31, 2008, from Visa as
part of the litigation settlement. This was partially offset by a $46 million after-tax litigation related charge, and a $31 million after-tax charge for the contribution to the American Express Charitable Fund. 
EXPOSURE TO AIRLINE INDUSTRY 
The
Company has multiple co-brand relationships and rewards partners, of which airlines are one of the most important and valuable. The Company’s largest airline co-brand is Delta Air Lines (Delta) and this relationship includes exclusive co-brand
credit card partnerships and other arrangements, including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and travel. American Express’ Delta SkyMiles Credit Card co-brand portfolio accounts for approximately 5 percent of the Company’s worldwide
billed business and less than 15 percent of worldwide cardmember lending receivables. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of prepaid miles acquired from Delta. 
Over the last couple of years, there were a significant number of airline bankruptcies and liquidations, driven in part by volatile fuel
costs and weakening economies around the world. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant revenue declines when a particular airline scales back or ceases operations due to a bankruptcy or other financial challenges because volumes
generated by that airline are typically shifted to other participants in the industry that accept the Company’s card products. The Company’s exposure to business and credit risk in the airline industry is primarily through business
arrangements where the Company has remitted payment to the airline for a cardmember purchase of tickets that have not yet been used or “flown”. The Company mitigates this risk by delaying payment to the airlines with deteriorating
financial situations, thereby increasing cash withheld to protect the Company in the event the airline is liquidated. To date, the Company has not experienced significant losses from airlines that have ceased operations. 
60 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
OTHER REPORTING MATTERS 
ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS 
See the Recently Issued Accounting Standards section of
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
GLOSSARY OF SELECTED TERMINOLOGY 
Adjusted average loans
 — Represents average cardmember loans on an owned or managed basis, as applicable, excluding the impact of deferred card
fees, net of deferred direct acquisition costs of cardmember loans on an owned or managed basis, as applicable. 
Adjusted
net interest income
 — Represents net interest income allocated to the Company’s cardmember loans portfolio on an owned or managed basis, as applicable, which excludes the impact of card fees on loans and balance transfer fees
attributable to the Company’s cardmember loans portfolio on an owned or managed basis, as applicable. 
Asset
securitizations
 — Asset securitization involves the transfer and sale of receivables or loans to a special purpose entity created for the securitization activity, typically a trust. The trust, in turn, issues securities, commonly referred
to as asset-backed securities that are secured by the transferred receivables or loans. The trust uses the proceeds from the sale of such securities to pay the purchase price for the underlying receivables or loans. 
Average discount rate
 — This calculation is designed to approximate merchant pricing. It represents the percentage of billed
business (both proprietary and GNS) retained by the Company from merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance. 
Basic cards-in-force
 — Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that
account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network
partnership agreements. 
Billed business
 — Represents the dollar amount of charges on all American Express cards;
also referred to as spend or charge volume. Proprietary billed business includes charges made on the Company’s proprietary cards-in-force, cash advances on proprietary cards and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards.
Non-proprietary billed business represents the charges through the Company’s global network on cards issued by the Company’s network partners. Billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where
the cardmember is domiciled. 
Capital asset pricing model
 — Generates an appropriate discount rate using internal
and external inputs to value future cash flows based on the time value of money and the price for bearing uncertainty inherent in an investment. 
Capital ratios
 — Represents the minimum standards established by the regulatory agencies as a measure to determine whether the regulated entity has sufficient capital to absorb on and
off-balance sheet losses beyond current loss accrual estimates. 
Card acquisition
 — Primarily represents the
issuance of new cards to either new or existing cardmembers through marketing and promotion efforts. 
Cardmember 
—
The individual holder of an issued American Express branded charge or credit card. 
Cardmember loans
 — Represents
the outstanding amount due from cardmembers for charges made on their American Express credit cards, as well as any interest charges and card-related fees. Cardmember loans also include balances with extended payment terms on certain charge card
products and are net of unearned revenue. 
Cardmember receivables
 — Represents the outstanding amount due from
cardmembers for charges made on their American Express charge cards as well as any card-related fees. 
Charge cards

— Represents cards that carry no pre-set spending limits and are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing purchases. Cardmembers generally must pay the full amount billed each month. No finance charges are
assessed on charge cards. 
Credit cards
 — Represents cards that have a range of revolving payment terms, grace
periods, and rate and fee structures. 
Discount revenue
 — Represents revenue earned from fees charged to merchants
with whom the Company has entered into a card acceptance agreement for processing cardmember transactions. The discount fee generally is deducted from the Company’s payment reimbursing the merchant for cardmember purchases. Such amounts are
reduced by contra- revenue such as payments to third-party card issuing partners, cash-back reward costs and corporate incentive payments. 
Interest expense 
— Interest expense includes interest incurred primarily to fund cardmember loans, charge card product receivables, general corporate purposes, and liquidity needs, and is
recognized as incurred. Interest expense is divided principally into three categories (i) deposits, which primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken from customers and institutions, (ii) short-term borrowings, which primarily
relates to interest expense on commercial paper, federal funds purchased, bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings, and (iii) long-term debt, which primarily relates to interest expense on the Company’s long-term debt. 
Interest income 
— Interest and fees on loans includes interest on loans which is assessed using the average daily balance
method for loans owned. These amounts are recognized based upon the principal amount outstanding in accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance is paid or written-off. Loan fees are deferred and
recognized in interest income

61 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

on a straight-line basis over the 12-month card membership period, net of deferred direct card acquisition costs and a reserve for projected membership cancellation. 
Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily relates to the Company’s performing fixed-income securities. Interest income
is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that the related investment security recognizes a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance
throughout its term. These amounts are recognized until these securities are in default or when it is likely that future interest payments will not be made as scheduled. 
Interest income on deposits with banks and other is recognized as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in excess of near-term funding requirements in interest-bearing time deposits,
overnight sweep accounts, and other interest bearing demand and call accounts. 
Interest-only strip
 — Interest-only
strips are generated from USCS’ securitization activity and are a form of retained interest held by the Company in the securitization. This financial instrument represents the present value of estimated future positive “excess spread”
expected to be generated by the securitized assets over the estimated life of those assets. Excess spread is the net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the third-party investors’ interests in the securitization after
deducting the interest paid on the investor certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees, and other expenses. 
Merchant acquisition
 — Represents the signing of merchants to accept American Express-branded cards. 
Net card fees
 — Represents the charge card membership fees earned during the period. These fees are recognized as revenue over the covered card membership period (typically one year), net of provision for projected refunds for
cancellation of card membership. 
Net interest yield on cardmember loans
 — Represents the net spread earned on
cardmember loans. Net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans, computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest yield on
cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) includes interest that is deemed uncollectible. For the owned and managed basis presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest are recorded through provisions for
losses – cardmember loans; therefore, such reserves and net write-offs are not included in the net interest yield calculation. 
Net loss ratio
 — Represents the ratio of charge card write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized and unauthorized transactions) and fee components, less recoveries, on cardmember receivables expressed as a
percentage of gross amounts billed to cardmembers. 
Net write-off rate
 — Represents the amount of cardmember loans
or USCS cardmember receivables written off consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions), less recoveries, as a percentage of the average loan balance or USCS average receivables during the period. 
Return on average equity
 — Calculated by dividing one year period net income by one year average total shareholders’ equity.

Return on average tangible common equity 
— Computed in the same manner as ROE except the computation of average
tangible common shareholders’ equity excludes average goodwill and other intangibles. 
Return on average segment
capital 
— Calculated by dividing one year period segment income by one year average segment capital. 
Return on
average tangible segment capital 
— Computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles. 
Risk-weighted assets
 — Assets are weighted for risk according to a formula used by the Federal Reserve to conform to capital
adequacy guidelines. On and off-balance sheet items are weighted for risk, with off-balance sheet items converted to balance sheet equivalents, using risk conversion factors, before being allocated a risk-adjusted weight. 
Securitization income, net
 — Includes non-credit provision components of the net gains or losses from securitization activities;
changes in fair value of the interest-only strip; excess spread related to securitized cardmember loans; and servicing income, net of related discounts or fees. Excess spread, which is recognized as earned, is the net cash flow from interest and fee
collections allocated to the third-party investors’ interests in the securitization after deducting the interest paid on the investor certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other expenses. 
Stored value and prepaid products
 — Includes Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products such as gift cheques and cards as well
as reloadable Travelers Cheque cards. These products are sold as safe and convenient alternatives to currency for purchasing goods and services. 
Tier 1 capital ratio
 — Tier 1 capital ratio is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is the sum of common shareholders’ equity, certain perpetual
preferred stock, and minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries, adjusted for certain other comprehensive income items, ineligible goodwill and intangible assets. This ratio is commonly used by regulatory agencies to assess a financial
institution’s financial strength and is the primary form of capital used to absorb losses beyond current loss accrual estimates. 
Tier 1 leverage ratio
 — Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital (as defined above) by the Company’s average total consolidated assets for the most recent quarter. 
62 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Total cards-in-force
 — Represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Total consumer cards-in-force includes basic
cards issued to the primary account owner and any supplemental cards, which represent additional cards issued on that account. Total small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic cards issued to employee cardmembers. Proprietary
cards-in-force represent card products where the Company owns the cardmember relationship, including card issuance, billing and credit management and strategic plans such as marketing, promotion, and development of card products and offerings.
Proprietary cards-in-force include co-brand and affinity cards. For non-proprietary cards-in-force (except for certain independent operator network partnership agreements), the Company maintains the responsibility to acquire and service merchants
that accept the Company’s cards and the cardmember relationship is owned by the Company’s network partners that issue the cards (who also provide the Company data on the number of cards they issue). 
Total risk-based capital ratio
 — Total risk-based capital ratio is calculated as the sum of Tier 1 capital (as defined above) and
Tier 2 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. The Company calculates Tier 2 capital as the sum of the allowance for receivable and loan losses (limited to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets) and 45 percent of the unrealized gains on equity
securities. 
Travel sales — 
Represents the total dollar amount of travel transaction volume for airline, hotel, car
rental, and other travel arrangements made for consumers and corporate clients. The Company earns revenue on these transactions by charging a transaction or management fee. 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report includes forward-looking statements within
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, which address the Company’s expected business and financial performance, among other matters,
contain words such as “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “optimistic”, “intend”, “plan”, “aim”, “will”, “may”, “should”, “could”,
“would”, “likely”, and similar expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: the Company’s ability to exceed for 2010 its
on-average, over-time earnings per share growth target of 12 percent to 15 percent per annum, which will depend on, among other things, the factors described below, including the level of consumer and business spending, credit trends, expense
management, currency and interest rate fluctuations and general economic conditions, such as unemployment and GDP growth; the Company’s ability to manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, merchants and other credit trends,
which will depend in part on (i) the economic environment, including, among other things, the housing market, the rates of bankruptcies and unemployment, which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporate
customers and businesses that accept the Company’s card products, (ii) the effectiveness of the Company’s credit models and (iii) the impact of recently enacted statutes and proposed legislative initiatives affecting the credit
card business, including, without limitation, The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “CARD Act”); the impact of the Company’s efforts to deal with delinquent cardmembers in the current
challenging economic environment, which may affect payment patterns of cardmembers and the perception of the Company’s services, products and brands; the Company’s near-term write-off rates, including those for the first and second
quarters of 2010, which will depend in part on changes in the level of the Company’s loan balances, delinquency rates of cardmembers, unemployment rates, the volume of bankruptcies and recoveries of previously written-off loans; consumer and
business spending on the Company’s credit and charge card products and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products and growth in card lending balances, which depend in part on the economic environment, and the ability to issue new and enhanced
card and prepaid products, services and rewards programs, and increase revenues from such products, attract new cardmembers, reduce cardmember attrition, capture a greater share of existing cardmembers’ spending, and sustain premium discount
rates on its card products in light of regulatory and market pressures, increase merchant coverage, retain cardmembers after low introductory lending rates have expired, and expand the Global Network Services business; the write-off and delinquency
rates in the medium- to long-term of cardmembers added by the Company during the past few years, which could impact their profitability to the Company; the Company’s ability to effectively implement changes in the pricing of certain of its
products and services; fluctuations in interest rates (including fluctuations in benchmarks, such as LIBOR and other benchmark rates that may give rise to basis risk, and credit spreads), which impact the Company’s borrowing costs, return on
lending products and the value of the Company’s investments; the Company’s net interest yield on cardmember loans trending downward over time closer to historical levels, which will be impacted by the affects of the CARD Act and changes in
consumer behavior that affect loan balances; the actual amount to be spent by the Company on marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services based on management’s assessment of competitive opportunities and other factors affecting its
judgment and during 2010, the extent of provision benefit, if any, from

63 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

lower than expected write-offs; the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising and promotion expenses as business expands or changes, including the ability to accurately
estimate the provision for the cost of the Membership Rewards program; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the Company’s ability to grow its business and generate excess capital and earnings in a manner and at levels that will
allow the Company to return a portion of capital to shareholders, which will depend on the Company’s ability to manage its capital needs, and the effect of business mix, acquisitions and rating agency and regulatory requirements, including
those arising from the Company’s status as a bank holding company; the ability of the Company to meet its objectives with respect to the growth of its brokered retail CD program, brokerage sweep account program and the direct deposit
initiative, which will depend in part on customer demand, the perception of the Company’s brand and regulatory capital requirements; the success of the Global Network Services business in partnering with banks in the United States, which will
depend in part on the extent to which such business further enhances the Company’s brand; allows the Company to leverage its significant processing scale, expands merchant coverage of the network, provides Global Network Services’ bank
partners in the United States the benefits of greater cardmember loyalty and higher spend per customer, and merchant benefits such as greater transaction volume and additional higher spending customers; the ability of the Global Network Services
business to meet the performance requirements called for by the Company’s settlements with MasterCard and Visa; trends in travel and entertainment spending and the overall level of consumer confidence; the uncertainties associated with business
acquisitions, including, among others, the failure to realize anticipated business retention, growth and cost savings, as well as the ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into the Company’s existing operations; the success,
timeliness and financial impact (including costs, cost savings, and other benefits, including increased revenues), and beneficial effect on the Company’s operating expense to revenue ratio, both in the short-term and over time, of reengineering
initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, including cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies
operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet to save costs, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such reengineering actions, including, the ability
of the Company to generate an annualized level of greater than $500 million of gross expense savings by 2012 from reengineering actions in its Global Services unit; the Company’s ability to reinvest the benefits arising from such reengineering
actions in its businesses; bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations or similar events affecting the airline or any other industry representing a significant portion of the Company’s billed business, including any potential negative effect
on particular card products and services and billed business generally that could result from the actual or perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries; the triggering of obligations to make payments to certain co-brand partners,
merchants, vendors and customers under contractual arrangements with such parties under certain circumstances; a downturn in the Company’s businesses and/or negative changes in the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ credit ratings, which
could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing costs; the ability of the Company to satisfy its liquidity needs and execute on its funding plans, which will depend on, among other things, the
Company’s future business growth, its credit ratings, market capacity and demand for securities offered by the Company, performance by the Company’s counterparties under its bank credit facilities and other lending facilities, regulatory
changes, including changes to the policies, rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Company’s ability to securitize and sell receivables and the
performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions; accuracy of estimates for the fair value of the assets in the Company’s investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable; the
ability of the Company’s charge card and lending trusts to maintain excess spreads at levels sufficient to avoid material set-asides or early amortization of the Company’s charge card and lending securitizations, which will depend on
various factors such as income derived from the relevant portfolios and their respective credit performances; the increase in excess spread resulting from the designation of discount option receivables with respect to the American Express Credit
Account Master Trust, which will depend in part on the monthly principal payment rate posted to accounts in, and the credit performance of, the securitized lending portfolio; the Company’s ability to invest in technology advances across all
areas of its business to stay on the leading edge of technologies applicable to the payments industry; the Company’s ability to attract and retain executive management and other key employees; the Company’s ability to protect its
intellectual property rights (IP) and avoid infringing the IP of other parties; the potential negative effect on the Company’s businesses and infrastructure, including information technology, of terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intrusion
into our infrastructure by “hackers” or other catastrophic events in the future; political or economic instability in certain regions or countries, which could affect lending and other commercial activities, among other businesses, or
restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies; changes in laws or government regulations; the administration’s proposal to impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee at the rate of

64 
Table of Contents
2009 FINANCIAL REVIEW 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

approximately 15 basis points on certain liabilities of banks, bank holding companies and other financial institutions with consolidated assets of at least $50 billion; the potential failure of
the U.S. Congress to extend the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could increase the Company’s effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on net income; the potential impact of the CARD Act and
regulations adopted by federal bank regulators relating to certain credit and charge card practices, including, among others, the imposition by card issuers of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect
of outstanding balances with different interest rates, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s net income; accounting changes, including the implementation of changes to the accounting for off-balance sheet activities or other
potential regulatory interpretations in this area, which, effective January 1, 2010, requires the Company to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the lending securitization trust, thereby requiring the Company to reestablish loss reserves,
which has in turn resulted in a reduction to the Company’s regulatory capital ratios and will also result in a change with respect to the presentation of its financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2010, and which also could
result in lower credit ratings on securities issued by the Company’s off-balance sheet securitization trusts as a result of the uncertainty with respect to the ability of rating agencies to continue to rely on the FDIC’s safe harbor rule
regarding the isolation of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring bank’s receivership or conservatorship, which in turn could adversely impact the Company’s ability to utilize securitizations as a component of its funding
strategy; outcomes and costs associated with litigation and compliance and regulatory matters; and competitive pressures in all of the Company’s major businesses. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the Company’s other reports filed with the SEC. 
65 
Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON 
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER 
FINANCIAL REPORTING 
The management of the Company
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. 
The Company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP in the United
States of America, and includes those policies and procedures that: 
Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the Company; 
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 
Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, the Company’s
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework. 
Based on management’s assessment and those criteria, we conclude that, as of December 31, 2009, the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting is effective. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting
firm, has issued an attestation report appearing on the following page on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. 
66 
Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT 
REGISTERED PUBLIC 
ACCOUNTING FIRM 
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY: 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and shareholders’ equity present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of American Express Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based
on criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements,
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
New York, New York 
February 25, 2010 
67 
Table of Contents
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PAGE
Consolidated Statements of Income – For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
69
Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 31, 2009 and 2008
70
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows – For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
71
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity – For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007
72
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
73
Note 2 – Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations
76
Note 3 – Fair Values
77
Note 4 – Accounts Receivable
80
Note 5 – Loans
82
Note 6 – Investment Securities
84
Note 7 – Asset Securitizations
87
Note 8 – Other Assets
91
Note 9 – Customer Deposits
93
Note 10 – Debt
94
Note 11 – Other Liabilities
97
Note 12 – Derivatives and Hedging Activities
98
Note 13 – Guarantees
102
Note 14 – Common and Preferred Shares and Warrants
103
Note 15 – Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
104
Note 16 – Restructuring Charges
106
Note 17 – Income Taxes
108
Note 18 – Earnings Per Common Share
110
Note 19 – Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of Income Lines
110
Includes further details of:
> Other Commissions and Fees
> Other Revenues
> Marketing, Promotions, Rewards and Cardmember Services
> Other, Net Expenses
Note 20 – Stock Plans
111
Note 21 – Retirement Plans
113
Note 22 – Significant Credit Concentrations
118
Note 23 – Regulatory Matters and Capital Adequacy
119
Note 24 – Commitments and Contingencies
121
Note 25 – Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations
122
Note 26 – Parent Company
125
Note 27 – Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
127
68 
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Years Ended December 31 
(Millions, except per share amounts)
2009
2008
2007
Revenues
Non-interest revenues
Discount revenue
13,389
15,025
14,596
Net card fees
2,151
2,150
1,919
Travel commissions and fees
1,594
2,010
1,926
Other commissions and fees
1,778
2,307
2,417
Securitization income, net
400
1,070
1,507
Other
2,087
2,157
1,751
Total non-interest revenues
21,399
24,719
24,116
Interest income
Interest and fees on loans
4,468
6,159
6,351
Interest and dividends on investment securities
804
771
673
Deposits with banks and other
59
271
400
Total interest income
5,331
7,201
7,424
Interest expense
Deposits
425
454
566
Short-term borrowings
37
483
731
Long-term debt and other
1,745
2,618
2,684
Total interest expense
2,207
3,555
3,981
Net interest income
3,124
3,646
3,443
Total revenues net of interest expense
24,523
28,365
27,559
Provisions for losses
Charge card
857
1,363
1,140
Cardmember loans
4,266
4,231
2,761
Other
190
204
202
Total provisions for losses
5,313
5,798
4,103
Total revenues net of interest expense after provisions for losses
19,210
22,567
23,456
Expenses
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
6,467
7,361
7,817
Salaries and employee benefits
5,080
6,090
5,438
Professional services
2,408
2,413
2,280
Other, net
2,414
3,122
2,227
Total
16,369
18,986
17,762
Pretax income from continuing operations
2,841
3,581
5,694
Income tax provision
704
710
1,568
Income from continuing operations
2,137
2,871
4,126
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
(7
(172
(114
Net income
2,130
2,699
4,012
Earnings per Common Share — Basic: (Note 18)
Income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders
(a)
1.55
2.47
3.49
Loss from discontinued operations
(0.01
(0.14
(0.09
Net income attributable to common shareholders
(a)
1.54
2.33
3.40
Earnings per Common Share — Diluted: (Note 18)
Income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders
(a)
1.54
2.47
3.44
Loss from discontinued operations
(0.15
(0.10
Net income attributable to common shareholders
(a)
1.54
2.32
3.34
Average common shares outstanding for earnings per common share:
Basic
1,168
1,154
1,173
Diluted
1,171
1,156
1,193
(a)
Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $94 million for the year ended December 31,
2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $22 million, $15 million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
69 
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
December 31 
(Millions, except share data)
2009
2008
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash due from banks
881
1,574
Interest-bearing deposits in other banks (including securities purchased under resale agreements: 2009, $212; 2008,
$141)
10,597
6,554
Short-term investment securities
4,064
12,419
Total
15,542
20,547
Accounts receivable
Cardmember receivables, less reserves: 2009, $546; 2008, $810
33,197
32,178
Other receivables, less reserves: 2009, $109; 2008, $118
5,007
4,393
Loans
Cardmember loans, less reserves: 2009, $3,268; 2008, $2,570
29,504
39,641
Other, less reserves: 2009, $27; 2008, $39
506
1,018
Investment securities
24,337
12,526
Premises and equipment — at cost, less accumulated depreciation: 2009, $4,130; 2008, $3,743
2,782
2,948
Other assets
13,213
12,607
Assets of discontinued operations
216
Total assets
124,088
126,074
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Liabilities
Customer deposits
26,289
15,486
Travelers Cheques outstanding
5,975
6,433
Accounts payable
8,926
8,428
Short-term borrowings
2,344
8,993
Long-term debt
52,338
60,041
Other liabilities
13,810
14,592
Liabilities of discontinued operations
260
Total liabilities
109,682
114,233
Commitments and contingencies (see Note 24)
Shareholders’ Equity
Common shares, $.20 par value, authorized 3.6 billion shares; issued and outstanding 1,192 million shares in 2009 and
1,160 million shares in 2008
237
232
Additional paid-in capital
11,144
10,496
Retained earnings
3,737
2,719
Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income
Net unrealized securities gains (losses), net of tax: 2009, $(291); 2008, $458
507
(699
Net unrealized derivatives losses, net of tax: 2009, $15; 2008, $44
(28
(80
Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax: 2009, $31; 2008, $64
(722
(368
Net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit costs, net of tax: 2009, $244; 2008, $216
(469
(459
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss
(712
(1,606
Total shareholders’ equity
14,406
11,841
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
124,088
126,074
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
70 
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Years Ended December 31 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net income
2,130
2,699
4,012
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
7
172
114
Income from continuing operations
2,137
2,871
4,126
Adjustments to reconcile income from continuing operations to net cash provided by operating activities
Provisions for losses
5,313
5,798
4,103
Depreciation and amortization
1,070
712
648
Deferred taxes, acquisition costs and other
(1,429 
442
(851
Stock-based compensation
202
229
276
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Other receivables
(730 
101
(927
Other assets
526
(2,256
(226
Accounts payable and other liabilities
(23 
885
1,013
Travelers Cheques outstanding
(449
(770
(22 
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities attributable to discontinued operations
(233 
129
(129 
Net cash provided by operating activities
6,384
8,141
8,011
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Sale of investments
2,930
4,657
3,034
Maturity and redemption of investments
2,900
9,620
6,154
Purchase of investments
(13,719
(14,724
(9,592
Net decrease (increase) in cardmember loans/receivables
6,154
5,940
(20,377
Proceeds from cardmember loan securitizations
2,244
9,619
7,825
Maturities of cardmember loan securitizations
(4,800
(4,670
(3,500
Purchase of premises and equipment
(772
(977
(938
Sale of premises and equipment
50
27
55
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired
(4,589
(124
Net (increase) decrease in restricted cash
(1,935 
33
56
Net cash provided by investing activities attributable to discontinued operations
196
2,625
786
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
(6,752 
7,561
(16,621
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net change in interest-bearing deposits
11,037
358
3,361
Net (decrease) increase in short-term borrowings
(6,574
(8,693
2,682
Issuance of long-term debt
6,697
19,213
20,833
Principal payments on long-term debt
(15,197
(13,787
(9,214
Issuance of American Express Series A preferred shares and warrants
3,389
Issuance of American Express common shares
614
176
852
Repurchase of American Express Series A preferred shares
(3,389
Repurchase of American Express stock warrants
(340
Repurchase of American Express common shares
(218
(3,572
Dividends paid
(924
(836
(712
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities attributable to discontinued operations
40
(6,653
1,236
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
(4,647
(10,440
15,466
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
7
20
166
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
(5,008 
5,282
7,022
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year includes cash of discontinued operations: 2009, $3; 2008, $6,390; 2007, $4,445

20,550
15,268
8,246
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year includes cash of discontinued operations: 2009,
$0; 2008, $3; 2007, $6,390
15,542
20,550
15,268
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
71 
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Three Years Ended December 31, 2009
(Millions, except per share amounts)
Total
Preferred
Shares
Common
Shares
Additional
Paid-in
Capital
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
(Loss) Income
Retained
Earnings
Balances as of December 31, 2006
10,511
240
9,638
(520
1,153
Comprehensive income
Net income
4,012
4,012
Change in net unrealized securities gains
(80
(80
Change in net unrealized derivatives (losses) gains
(98
(98
Foreign currency translation adjustments
(33
(33
Net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit gains
289
289
Total comprehensive income
4,090
Repurchase of common shares
(3,572
(12
(494
(3,066
Other changes, primarily employee plans
867
4
1,020
(157
Effect of change in accounting principle
(127
(127
Cash dividends declared
Common, $0.63 per share
(740
(740
Balances as of December 31, 2007
11,029
232
10,164
(442
1,075
Comprehensive income
Net income
2,699
2,699
Change in net unrealized securities gains
(711
(711
Change in net unrealized derivatives (losses) gains
(9
(9
Foreign currency translation adjustments
(113
(113
Net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit losses
(334
(334
Total comprehensive income
1,532
Repurchase of common shares
(218 
(1
(42
(175
Other changes, primarily employee plans
334
1
374
3
(44
Cash dividends declared
Common, $0.72 per share
(836
(836
Balances as of December 31, 2008
11,841
232
10,496
(1,606
2,719
Comprehensive income
Net income
2,130
2,130
Change in net unrealized securities gains (losses)
1,206
1,206
Change in net unrealized derivatives losses
52
52
Foreign currency translation adjustments, including hedge gain/loss
(354
(354
Net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit losses
(10
(10
Total comprehensive income
3,024
Issuance of preferred shares and common stock warrants
3,389
3,157
232
Preferred share accretion
232
(232
Repurchase of preferred shares
(3,389
(3,389
Repurchase of warrants
(340
(232
(108
Issuance of common shares
531
4
527
Other changes, primarily employee plans
279
1
121
157
Cash dividends declared
Preferred shares
(74
(74
Common, $0.72 per share
(855
(855
Balances as of December 31, 2009
14,406
237
11,144
(712
3,737
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
72 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTE 1 
SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
THE COMPANY 
American Express is a global service company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The Company’s principal products
and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses around the world. The Company’s various products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including
consumers, small businesses, middle-market companies, and large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels, including direct mail, on-line applications, targeted direct and third-party sales forces and direct
response advertising. 
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). All significant intercompany transactions are eliminated. The
Company has performed an evaluation of subsequent events through February 25, 2010, which is the date the financial statements were issued. 
The Company consolidates all voting interest entities in which the Company holds a controlling financial interest through which the Company is able to exercise control over those entities’ operating
and financial decisions. Entities in which the Company’s voting interest does not provide the Company with control, but allows the Company to exert significant influence over their financial and operating decisions are accounted for under the
equity method. All other investments in equity securities, to the extent that they are not considered marketable securities, are accounted for under the cost method. 
Investments with variable interest entities (VIEs) are limited. The Company consolidates any VIEs for which it is considered to be the primary beneficiary. The determination of whether an entity is a VIE
is based on the amount and characteristics of the entity’s equity. An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE when it has a variable interest for which it is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, that is, it will absorb a majority of the
VIE’s expected losses or receive a majority of the VIE’s expected residual returns. 
Certain reclassifications of
prior period amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation. These reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company’s results of operations. 
FOREIGN CURRENCY 
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars based upon exchange rates prevailing at the end of each year. The resulting translation adjustments, along with any related qualifying hedge and tax
effects, are included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, a component of shareholders’ equity. Translation adjustments, including qualifying hedge and tax effects, are reclassified to earnings upon the sale or substantial
liquidation of investments in foreign operations. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average month-end exchange rates during the year. Gains and losses related to transactions in a currency other than the functional currency, including
operations outside the U.S. where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported net, in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income, in other non-interest revenue, interest income, interest expense, or other, net expense,
depending on the nature of the activity. Net foreign currency transaction gains amounted to approximately $205 million, $15 million and $27 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Refer to Note 19 for further discussion of certain items
that impacted these gains in 2009. 
AMOUNTS BASED ON ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 
Accounting estimates are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. These estimates are based, in part, on management’s assumptions
concerning future events. Among the more significant assumptions are those that relate to reserves for cardmember losses relating to loans and charge card receivables, reserves for Membership Rewards cost, fair value measurements, goodwill and
income taxes. These accounting estimates reflect the best judgment of management, but actual results could differ. 
TOTAL
REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE 
Discount Revenue 
Discount revenue represents fees charged to merchants with which the Company, or its franchise partners, has entered into card acceptance agreements for facilitating transactions between the merchants and
the Company’s cardmembers. The discount generally is deducted from the payment to the merchant and recorded as discount revenue at the time the charge is captured. 
Net Card Fees 
Card fees are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over
the 12-month card membership period, net of deferred direct card acquisition costs and a reserve for projected membership cancellations. Charge card fees are recognized in net card fees in the Consolidated Statements of Income and the unamortized
net card fee balance is reported in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 11). Loan product fees are considered an enhancement to the

73 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

yield on the product, and are recognized in interest and fees on loans in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The unamortized net card fee balance for lending products is reported net in
cardmember loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 5). 
Travel Commissions and Fees 
The Company earns travel commissions and fees by charging clients transaction or management fees for selling and arranging travel and travel management
services. Client transaction fee revenue is recognized at the time the client books the travel arrangements. Travel management services revenue is recognized over the contractual term of the agreement. The Company’s travel suppliers (for
example, airlines, hotels, car rental companies) pay commissions and fees on tickets issued, sales and other services based on contractual agreements. Commissions and fees from travel suppliers are generally recognized at the time a ticket is
purchased or over the term of the contract. Commissions and fees that are based on actual usage that is unknown at time of purchase (for example, hotel and car rentals) are recognized when cash is received. 
Other Commissions and Fees 
Other
commissions and fees include foreign currency conversion fees, delinquency fees, service fees and other card related assessments, which are recognized primarily in the period in which they are charged to the cardmember. Also included are fees
related to the Company’s Membership Rewards program, which are deferred and recognized over the period covered by the fee. The unamortized Membership Rewards fee balance is included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer
to Note 11). 
Contra-revenue 
The Company regularly makes payments through contractual arrangements with merchants, Commercial Card clients and certain other customers, collectively the “customers”. Payments to customers are generally classified as
contra-revenue unless a specifically identifiable benefit (e.g. goods or services) is received by the Company in consideration for that payment and the fair value of such benefit is determinable and measurable. If no such benefit is identified, then
the entire payment is classified as contra-revenue, and included within total non-interest revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income in the line item where the related transaction revenues are recorded (e.g. discount revenue, travel
commissions and fees, and other commissions and fees). If such a benefit is identified, then the payment is classified as expense up to the estimated fair value of the benefit. 
Interest Income 
Interest on loans owned is assessed using the average daily
balance method. Interest is recognized based upon the loan principal amount outstanding in accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance is paid or written-off. 
Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily relates to the Company’s performing fixed-income securities. Interest income
is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that a constant rate of return is recognized on the investment security’s outstanding balance.
Amounts are recognized until such time as a security is in default or when it is likely that future interest payments will not be made as scheduled. 
Interest on deposits with banks and other is recognized as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in excess of near-term funding requirements in interest-bearing time deposits, overnight
sweep accounts, and other interest bearing demand and call accounts. 
Interest Expense 
Interest expense includes interest incurred primarily to fund cardmember loans, charge card product receivables, general corporate purposes, and liquidity
needs, and is recognized as incurred. Interest expense is divided principally into three categories (i) deposits, which primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken from customers and institutions, (ii) short-term borrowings,
which primarily relates to interest expense on commercial paper, federal funds purchased, bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings, and (iii) long-term debt, which primarily relates to interest expense on the Company’s long-term
financing. 
BALANCE SHEET 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and amounts due from banks, interest-bearing bank
balances, including securities purchased under resale agreements and other highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. 
Premises and Equipment 
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation. Costs incurred during construction are capitalized and are depreciated once an asset is placed in service. Depreciation is generally computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of assets, which range from 3
to 8 years for equipment. Premises are depreciated based upon their estimated useful life at the acquisition date, which generally ranges from 40 to 60 years. 
Leasehold improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the economic life of the improvement, which ranges from 5 to 10 years.
The Company maintains operating leases worldwide for facilities and equipment. Rent

74 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

expense for facility leases is recognized ratably over the lease term, and is calculated to include adjustments for rent concessions, rent escalations and leasehold improvement allowances. The
Company accounts for lease restoration obligations in accordance with applicable GAAP, which requires recognition of the fair value of restoration liabilities when incurred, and amortization of capitalized restoration costs over the lease term.

Software development costs 
The Company capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the software is ready for its intended
use, these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the software’s estimated useful life, generally 5 years. 
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The following table identifies the Company’s other significant accounting policies, the Note and page where a detailed description of each policy can be found. 
Significant Accounting Policy
Note
Number
Note Title
Page
Fair Value Measurements
Note 3
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
Page 77
Accounts Receivable
Note 4
Accounts Receivable
Page 80
Loans
Note 5
Loans
Page 82
Investment Securities
Note 6
Investment Securities
Page 84
Securitization Income, Net; and Asset Securitization
Note 7
Asset Securitizations
Page 87
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Note 8
Other Assets
Page 91
Membership Rewards
Note 11
Other Liabilities
Page 97
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities
Note 12
Derivative and Hedging Activities
Page 98
Income Taxes
Note 17
Income Taxes
Page 108
Other Non-Interest Revenues
Note 19
Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of Income
Page 110
Other, Net Expense
Note 19
Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of Income
Page 110
Stock-based Compensation
Note 20
Stock Plans
Page 111
Bank Holding Company
Note 23
Regulatory Matters and Capital Adequacy
Page 119
Reportable Operating Segments
Note 25
Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations
Page 122
75 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) recently issued the following accounting standards, which are effective beginning January 1, 2010.

Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-16, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets: An amendment for
accounting for transfers of financial assets will eliminate the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), therefore requiring these entities to be evaluated under the accounting guidance for consolidation of VIEs. Other changes include
additional considerations when determining if sale accounting is appropriate, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements. The new standard is to be applied prospectively to transactions completed after the effective date.

ASU No. 2009-17, Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities: An
amendment for accounting by enterprises involved with VIEs eliminates the scope exception for QSPEs and requires an entity to reconsider its previous consolidation conclusions reached under the VIE consolidation model, including (i) whether an
entity is a VIE, (ii) whether the enterprise is the VIE’s primary beneficiary, and (iii) the required financial statement disclosures. The new standard can be applied as of the effective date, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to
retained earnings recognized on that date, or retrospectively, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings recognized as of the beginning of the first year adjusted. 
The Company has determined that it will be required to consolidate the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) as a result of
implementing these standards. This will result in approximately $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans being recognized on the balance sheet of the Company effective January 1, 2010, along with $25.0 billion of long-term debt. This will
also result in the reduction of the Company’s investment securities by $3.6 billion and other assets by $0.7 billion. The $29.0 billion of cardmember loans will require associated loan loss reserves of approximately $2.5 billion, which will be
charged directly against retained earnings. The adjustments described above will reduce shareholders’ equity by approximately $1.8 billion on an after-tax basis. Refer to Note 7 for further discussion of the Lending Trust. 
NOTE 2 
ACQUISITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
ACQUISITIONS 
Revolution Money 
On
January 15, 2010, the Company purchased Revolution Money, a provider of secure person-to-person payment services through an internet based platform, for approximately $300 million. The majority of the consideration paid is expected to be
recorded as goodwill, with the remainder to be allocated to finite-lived intangible assets and other miscellaneous assets and liabilities. 
Corporate Payment Services 
On March 28, 2008, the Company purchased Corporate Payment Services (CPS), General Electric
Company’s commercial card and corporate purchasing business unit. The Company acquired $2.2 billion in assets and assumed $63 million in liabilities. The total cash consideration of $2.3 billion paid by the Company consisted of the contractual
purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion plus the repayment of CPS’ $1.2 billion in outstanding debt as of the acquisition date. 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
On September 18, 2007, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its international banking
subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd. (AEB) to Standard Chartered PLC (Standard Chartered) and to sell American Express International Deposit Company (AEIDC) through a put/call agreement to Standard Chartered 18 months after the close of the AEB
sale. The sale of AEB was completed on February 29, 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, AEIDC qualified to be reported as a discontinued operation. The sale of AEIDC was completed on September 10, 2009. 
For all periods presented, all of the operating results, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of AEB (except for certain components of AEB
that were not sold) and AEIDC have been removed from the Corporate & Other segment and are presented separately in discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted. 
76 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 3 
FAIR VALUES 
As permitted under GAAP, the Company adopted new fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in two phases.
The first phase, effective for the Company January 1, 2008, establishes requirements for fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities, and other recurring fair value measurements reported or disclosed at fair value. The second
phase, effective for the Company January 1, 2009, establishes requirements for all other assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date, and is based on the Company’s principal or most advantageous market for the specific asset or liability. 
GAAP established a three-level hierarchy of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value, defined as follows: 
Level 1 – inputs that are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 
Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly,
for substantially the full term of the
asset or liability, including: 
Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets 
Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active 
Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability 
Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means 
Level 3 – inputs that are unobservable and reflect the Company’s own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available in the circumstances (e.g. internally derived assumptions surrounding the timing and amount of expected cash flows). 
As summarized in the table below, the Company has financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. For the year ended
December 31, 2009, the Company did not have any significant assets or liabilities that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to initial recognition. 
The following table provides a summary of the estimated fair values for the
Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis by GAAP’s valuation hierarchy (as described above), as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Assets
Investment securities
(a)
20,738
530
20,208
11,782
11,782
Retained subordinated securities
3,599
3,599
744
744
Interest-only strip
20
20
32
32
Derivatives
(b)
833
833
1,782
1,782
Total assets
(c)
25,190
530
21,041
3,619
14,340
13,564
776
Liabilities
Derivatives
(b)
283
283
483
483
Total liabilities
283
283
483
483
(a)
Excludes retained subordinated securities and interest-only strip. 
(b)
GAAP permits the netting of derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and its
derivative counterparty. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, $33 million and $39 million, respectively, of derivative assets and liabilities have been offset and presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(c)
The Company’s defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) assets are included in the determination of the Plan’s net funded status, which is reported in other
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Plan assets are also measured at fair value on an annual basis, applying inputs in the fair value hierarchy as described above. Refer to Note 21 for further details. 
77 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The table below presents a reconciliation of all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, including realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings and accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Investments-
Retained
Subordinated
Securities
Other Assets-
Interest-Only
Strip
Investments-
Retained
Subordinated
Securities
Other Assets-
Interest-Only
Strip
Beginning fair value, January 1
744
32
78
223
Increases in securitized loans
(a)
1,760
1,250
Unrealized and realized gains (losses)
1,095
(b)
(12
(c)
(584
(b)
(191
(c)
Ending fair value, December 31
3,599
20
744
32
(a)
Represents cost basis of securitized loans. 
(b)
Included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. 
(c)
Included in securitization income, net. 
VALUATION TECHNIQUES USED IN MEASURING 
FAIR VALUE 
GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of all financial instruments. A financial instrument
is defined as cash, evidence of an ownership in an entity, or a contract between two entities to deliver cash or another financial instrument or to exchange other financial instruments. The disclosure requirements for the fair value of financial
instruments exclude leases, equity method investments, affiliate investments, pension and benefit obligations, insurance contracts and all non-financial instruments. 
For the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, summarized in the valuation hierarchy table above, the Company applies the following valuation techniques to measure
fair value: 
Investment Securities (Excluding Retained Subordinated Securities and the Interest-only Strip) 
When available, quoted market prices in active markets are used to determine fair value. Such investment securities are classified within Level 1 of
the fair value hierarchy. 
When quoted prices in an active market are not available, the fair values for the Company’s investment securities are obtained primarily from
pricing services engaged by the Company, and the Company receives one price for each security. The fair values provided by the pricing services are estimated by using pricing models, where the inputs to those models are based on observable market
inputs. The inputs to the valuation techniques applied by the pricing services vary depending on the type of security being priced but are typically benchmark yields, benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds, reported trades and
broker-dealer quotes, all with reasonable levels of
transparency. The pricing services did not apply any adjustments to the pricing models used. In addition, the Company did not apply any adjustments to prices received from the pricing services.
The Company classifies the prices obtained from the pricing services within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because the underlying inputs are directly observable from active markets or recent trades of similar securities in inactive markets.
However, the pricing models used do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value. 
The Company has reaffirmed its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing services. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices
provided by its pricing services to test their reasonableness by comparing their prices to valuations from different pricing sources as well as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold securities. Refer to Note 6 for additional fair
value information. 
Retained Subordinated Securities 
The Company determines the fair value of its retained subordinated securities using discounted cash flow models. The discount rate used is based on an interest rate curve that is observable in the
marketplace plus an unobservable credit spread commensurate with the risk of these securities and similar financial instruments. The Company classifies such securities in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because the applicable credit spreads are
not observable due to the illiquidity in the market with respect to these securities and similar financial instruments. Refer to Note 7 for additional fair value information. 
78 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Interest-only Strip 
The fair value of the interest-only strip is the present value of estimated future positive excess spread expected to be generated by the securitized loans over the estimated remaining life of those
loans. Management utilizes certain estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of the interest-only strip asset, including estimates for finance charge yield, credit losses, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (which determines future
certificate interest costs), monthly payment rate and discount rate. On a quarterly basis, the Company compares the assumptions it uses in calculating the fair value of its interest-only strip to observable market data when available, and to
historical trends. The interest-only strip is classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to the significance of the unobservable inputs used in valuing this asset. Refer to Note 7 for additional fair value information. 
Derivative Financial Instruments 
The fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments, which could be assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, is estimated by using either a third-party valuation service that uses proprietary pricing
models, or by using internal pricing models, neither of which contain a high level of subjectivity as the valuation techniques used do not require significant judgment and inputs to those models are readily observable from actively quoted markets.
In each case, the valuation models used are consistently applied and reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period of maturity, and market-based parameters such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity indices or
prices, and volatility. 
Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market parameters (for example, a benchmark curve)
used to value derivatives are not indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit risk by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the current exposure. Refer to Note 12
for additional fair value information. 
The following table
discloses the estimated fair values for the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities not carried at fair value as of December 31: 
(Rounded to nearest billion)
2009
2008
Carrying
Value
Fair
Value
Carrying
Value
Fair
Value
Financial Assets:
Assets for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value
57
57
58
58
Loans
30
30
41
41
Financial Liabilities:
Liabilities for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value
33
33
37
37
Certificates of deposit
15
16
8
7
Long-term debt
52
54
60
56
The fair values of these financial instruments are estimates based upon market conditions and perceived risks as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and require management judgment. These figures may not be indicative of their future fair
values. The fair value of the Company cannot be estimated by aggregating the amounts presented. 
The following methods were
used to determine estimated fair values: 
FINANCIAL ASSETS FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR VALUE

Financial assets for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value include cash and cash equivalents, cardmember receivables, accrued
interest and certain other assets. For these assets, the carrying values approximate fair value because they are short-term in duration or variable rate in nature. 
79 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
FINANCIAL ASSETS CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE 
Loans 
Loans are recorded at
historical cost, less reserves, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In estimating the fair value for the Company’s loans, the principal market is assumed to be the securitization market, and the Company uses the hypothetical securitization
price to determine the fair value of the portfolio. The securitization price is estimated from the assumed proceeds of the hypothetical securitization in the current market, adjusted for securitization uncertainties such as market conditions and
liquidity. 
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR VALUE 
Financial liabilities for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value include accrued interest, customer deposits (excluding certificates of
deposit, which are described further below), Travelers Cheques outstanding, short-term borrowings and certain other liabilities for which the carrying values approximate fair value because they are short-term in duration, variable rate in nature, or
have no defined maturity. 
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE 
Certificates of Deposit 
Certificates of deposit (CDs) are recorded at their historical issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology based on the Company’s current borrowing rates for
similar types of CDs. 
Long-term Debt 
Long-term debt is recorded at historical issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is estimated using either quoted market prices or discounted cash flows based on the Company’s
current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing. 
NOTE 4 
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 
CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES 
Cardmember receivables represent amounts due from charge
card customers. These receivables are recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a point-of-sale transaction with a merchant. Cardmember receivable balances are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for losses, discussed
below, and includes principal and any related accrued fees. 
RESERVES FOR LOSSES – CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES 
Reserves for losses relating to cardmember receivables represent management’s best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company’s outstanding
portfolio of receivables. Management’s evaluation process requires certain estimates and judgments. Reserves for these losses are primarily based upon models that analyze portfolio performance and reflect management’s judgment regarding
overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as
increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure, industry or geographic regions. In addition, management adjusts the reserves for
losses for other external environmental factors such as leading economic and market indicators, and the legal and regulatory environment. Generally, due to the short-term nature of cardmember receivables, the impact of the other external
environmental factors on the inherent losses within the cardmember receivable portfolio is not significant. As part of this evaluation process, management also considers various reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of past-due
amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember receivables and net write-off coverage. 
Cardmember receivables balances are
written off when management deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the number of days past due. Cardmember receivables within the U.S. Card Services (USCS) segment are generally written off when 180 days past due and
cardmember receivables within the International Card Services (ICS) and Global Commercial Services (GCS) segments are generally written off when 360 days past billing. Receivables in bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon
notification. Recoveries are recognized on a cash basis. 
Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, cardmember receivables in the
USCS segment were written off when 360 days past billing. During 2008, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance, the Company modified its write-off methodology to write off cardmember receivables in the USCS segment when 180 days past
due. Net cardmember

80 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

receivables write-offs in 2008 included approximately $341 million resulting from this change in write-off methodology. 
The impact of this change to the provision for charge card losses was not material. 
Accounts receivable as of December 31 consisted of: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
U.S. Card Services
17,750
17,822
International Card Services
5,944
5,582
Global Commercial Services
9,844
9,397
Global Network & Merchant Services
(a)
205
187
Cardmember receivables gross
(b)
33,743
32,988
Less: Cardmember reserve for losses
546
810
Cardmember receivables, net
33,197
32,178
Other receivables, net
(c)
5,007
4,393
(a)
Includes receivables primarily related to the Company’s business partners and International Currency Card portfolios. 
(b)
Includes approximately $10.4 billion and $9.9 billion of cardmember receivables outside the United States as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

(c)
Other receivables primarily represent amounts due from the Company’s travel customers, third party issuing partners, accrued interest on investments, receivables
acquired in connection with the purchase of CPS, Company cash held in an off-balance sheet securitization trust for daily settlement requirements and other receivables due to the Company in the ordinary course of business. 
The following table presents changes in the cardmember receivables reserve
for losses for years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Balance, January 1
810
1,149
981
Additions:
Cardmember receivables provision
(a)
857
1,363
1,140
Deductions:
Cardmember receivables net write-offs
(a)
(1,131
(1,552
(907
Cardmember receivables other
(b)
10
(150 
(65
Balance, December 31
546
810
1,149
(a)
For cardmember receivables, represents provision for losses and write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized and unauthorized transactions) and fee
components, less recoveries of $349 million, $187 million and $203 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
(b)
For December 31, 2008, these amounts primarily include adjustments related to the reclassification of waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember receivable. This
amount, for all periods, includes foreign currency translation adjustments. 
Refer to Note 5 for discussion on pledged
cardmember receivables as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Also refer to Note 5 for impaired cardmember receivables as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
81 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 5 
LOANS 
CARDMEMBER LOANS 
Cardmember loans represent amounts due from lending product customers. These loans are recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a point-of-sale
transaction with a merchant or when a charge card customer enters into an extended payment arrangement. Cardmember loans are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for cardmember losses, unamortized net card fees and include
accrued interest receivable and fees as of the balance sheet date. The Company’s policy is to generally cease accruing for interest receivable on a cardmember loan at the time when the account is written off. 
RESERVES FOR LOSSES – CARDMEMBER LOANS 
Reserves for losses relating to cardmember loans represent management’s best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company’s outstanding portfolio of loans. Management’s evaluation process
requires certain estimates and judgments. Reserves for these losses are primarily based upon models that analyze portfolio performance and reflect management’s judgment regarding overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account
several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management considers whether to adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management
initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as tenure, industry or geographic regions. In addition, management adjusts the reserves for losses for other external environmental factors including leading
economic and market indicators such as the unemployment rate, GDP, home price indices, non-farm payrolls, personal consumption expenditures index, consumer confidence index, purchasing manager’s index, bankruptcy filings and the legal and
regulatory environment. As part of this evaluation process, management also considers various reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of past-due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember loans and net write-off coverage.

Cardmember loan balances are written off when management deems amounts to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the
number of days past due (at 180 days past due). Cardmember loans in bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon notification. Recoveries are recognized on a cash basis. 
Loans as of December 31 consisted of: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
U.S. Card Services
23,507
32,684
International Card Services
9,241
9,499
Global Commercial Services
24
28
Cardmember loans
(a)
32,772
42,211
Less: Cardmember loans reserve for losses
3,268
2,570
Cardmember loans, net
29,504
39,641
Other loans, net
(b)
506
1,018
(a)
Cardmember loan balance is net of unamortized net card fees of $114 million and $115 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

(b)
Other loans primarily represent small business installment loans, a store card portfolio whose billed business is not processed on the Company’s network and small
business loans associated with the CPS acquisition. Other loans at December 31, 2008, included a loan to an affiliate in discontinued operations. 
The following table presents changes in the cardmember loans reserve for losses for years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Balance, January 1
2,570
1,831
1,171
Additions:
Cardmember loans provisions
(a)
4,209
4,106
2,615
Cardmember loans other
(b)
57
125
146
Total provision
4,266
4,231
2,761
Deductions:
Cardmember loans net write-offs — principal
(c)
(2,949
(2,643
(1,636
Cardmember loans net write-offs — interest and fees
(c)
(448
(580
(354
Cardmember loans other
(d)
(171
(269
(111
Balance, December 31
3,268
2,570
1,831
(a)
Represents loss provisions for cardmember loans consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions), interest and fee reserves components.

(b)
Primarily represents adjustments to cardmember loans resulting from unauthorized transactions. For December 31, 2008 and 2007, this amount also includes waived
fees. 
(c)
Cardmember loans net write-offs – principal for 2009, 2008 and 2007 include recoveries of $327 million, $301 million and $295 million, respectively. Recoveries of
interest and fees were de minimis. 
(d)
For December 31, 2009, the amount for cardmember loans primarily includes $160 million of reserves that were removed in connection with
securitizations during the period. The offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated

82 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

securities. For December 31, 2008, these amounts include reclassification of waived fee reserves to contra-cardmember loans. This amount, for all periods, includes foreign currency
translation adjustments. 
PLEDGED LOANS AND RECEIVABLES 
Certain cardmember loans and receivables totaling approximately $16.3 billion are pledged by the Company to its securitization Trusts (refer to Note 7). Upon
adoption of new GAAP governing transfers of financial assets as of January 1, 2010, and the resulting consolidation of the Lending Trust (refer to Note 1), approximately $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans will be recognized on the
balance sheet of the Company. While the $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans were sold by the Company’s bank subsidiaries to the Lending Trust, such loans are deemed to be pledged by the Company to the Company’s Lending Trust.

IMPAIRED LOANS AND RECEIVABLES 
Individually “impaired” loans and receivables are defined by GAAP as larger balance or smaller balance homogeneous restructured loans and receivables for which it is probable that the lender
will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loan and receivable agreement. The Company may modify cardmember loans and receivables and such modifications may include reducing the interest
rate/delinquency fees on the loans and receivables and/or placing the cardmember on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. If the cardmember does not comply with the modified terms, then the loan or receivable agreement reverts back to its
original terms. Impaired loans and receivables include long-term modification programs or Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDR), wherein the terms of a loan or receivable have been modified for cardmembers that are experiencing financial difficulties
and a long-term concession (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower. TDRs totaled $114 million and $71 million of cardmember loans and receivables outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Reserves for losses for
TDRs is determined by the difference between cash flows expected to be received from the cardmember discounted at the original contractual interest rates and the carrying value of the cardmember balance. 
The Company’s policy is generally to accrue interest through the date of charge-off (i.e. 180 days past due). Loans amounting to $299
million and $927 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest. These amounts include $46 million and $69 million of cardmember loans that are also included in the Short Term
Modification Programs discussed above. In addition, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, loans of $494 million and $14 million, respectively, were not accruing interest. These amounts primarily include certain cardmember loans placed with outside
collection agencies. 
OTHER LOANS AND RECEIVABLES WITH SHORT-TERM MODIFICATIONS 
In addition to the TDRs discussed above, the Company has instituted other modification programs that include short-term (12 months or less) interest rate and
fee reductions to cardmembers experiencing financial difficulty (“Short Term Modification Programs”). As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $701 million and $497 million, respectively, in cardmember loans and receivables have
been modified under these Short Term Modification Programs. These amounts include $46 million and $69 million, respectively, of cardmember loans that are also included in loans past due 90 days or more still accruing interest discussed above. The
short-term modifications to these cardmember loans and receivables had no incremental impact on the Company’s reserve for losses. 
83 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 6 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
Investment securities include debt and equity securities and are classified as available-for-sale. The
Company’s investment securities, principally debt securities, are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains (losses) recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of income tax provisions
(benefits). Realized gains and losses are recognized in results of operations upon disposition of the securities using the specific identification method on a trade date basis. Refer to Note 3 for a description of the Company’s methodology for
determining the fair value of its investment securities. 
The following is
a summary of investment securities as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Cost
Gross
Unrealized
Gains
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
Estimated
Fair Value
Cost
Gross
Unrealized
Gains
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
Estimated
Fair Value
State and municipal obligations
6,457
51
(258
6,250
6,628
37
(1,034
5,631
U.S. Government treasury obligations
5,556
10
5,566
1,933
48
1,981
U.S. Government agency obligations
6,699
47
(1
6,745
3,141
44
3,185
Mortgage-backed securities
(a)
179
3
(2
180
73
2
75
Retained subordinated securities
(b)
3,088
512
(1
3,599
1,328
(584
744
Equity securities
(c)
100
430
530
200
344
544
Corporate debt securities
(d)
1,333
14
(12
1,335
230
1
(13
218
Foreign government bonds and obligations
90
2
92
84
1
(4
81
Other
(e)
40
40
67
67
Total
23,542
1,069
(274
24,337
13,684
477
(1,635
12,526
(a)
Represents mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. 
(b)
Consists of investments in retained subordinated securities from the Company’s cardmember loan securitization program. 
(c)
Represents the Company’s investment in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). 
(d)
The December 31, 2009 balance includes $1.1 billion (cost basis) of corporate debt obligations issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) that
are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). 
(e)
Other is primarily comprised of investments in various mutual funds. 
OTHER-THAN-TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENT 
Realized losses are recognized when management determines that a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such determination requires judgment regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investments
at least quarterly and more often, as market conditions may require, to identify investments that have indications of other-than-temporary impairments. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective process, requiring the use
of judgments and assumptions. It is reasonably possible that a change in estimate will occur in the near term relating to other-than- temporary impairment. Accordingly, the Company considers several factors when evaluating debt securities for an
other-than-temporary impairment including the determination of the extent to which the decline in fair value of the security is due to increased default risk for the specific issuer or market interest rate risk. With respect to increased default
risk, the Company assesses the collectibility of principal and interest payments by monitoring issuers’ credit ratings, related changes to those ratings, specific credit events associated with the individual issuers as well as the credit
ratings of a financial guarantor, where applicable, and the extent to which amortized cost exceeds fair value and the duration and size of that difference. With respect to market interest rate risk, including benchmark interest rates and credit
spreads, the Company assesses whether it has the intent to sell the securities, and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the securities before recovery of any unrealized losses. 
84 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The following table provides information about the Company’s investment securities with gross
unrealized losses and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Less than 12 months
12 months or more
Less than 12 months
12 months or more
Description of Securities
Estimated
Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
Estimated
Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
Estimated
Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
Estimated
Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
State and municipal obligations
837
(25
2,074
(233
2,515
(326
2,037
(708
U.S. Government agency obligations
249
(1
Mortgage-backed securities
120
(2
4
Retained subordinated securities
75
(1
744
(584
Corporate debt securities
102
(1
38
(11
35
(1
99
(12
Foreign government bonds and obligations
27
(4
Total
1,308
(29
2,191
(245
3,321
(915
2,136
(720
The
following table summarizes the unrealized losses of temporary impairments by ratio of fair value to amortized cost as of December 31: 
(Dollars in millions)
Less than 12 months
12 months or more
Total
Ratio of Fair Value to Amortized Cost
Number of
Securities
Estimated
Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
Number of
Securities
Estimated
Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
Number of
Securities
Estimated
Fair Value
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
2009:
90%–100%
155
1,289
(25
235
1,414
(87
390
2,703
(112
Less than 90%
2
19
(4
83
777
(158
85
796
(162
Total as of
December 31, 2009
157
1,308
(29
318
2,191
(245
475
3,499
(274
2008:
90%–100%
327
1,289
(73
37
111
(7
364
1,400
(80
Less than 90%
321
2,032
(842
310
2,025
(713
631
4,057
(1,555
Total as of
December 31, 2008
648
3,321
(915
347
2,136
(720
995
5,457
(1,635
85 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The gross unrealized losses on state and municipal securities and all other debt securities are
attributable to a number of reasons such as issuer specific credit spreads and changes in market interest rates. 
In assessing
default risk on these securities, excluding the Company’s retained subordinated securities, the Company has qualitatively considered the key factors identified above and determined that it expects to collect all of the contractual cash flows
due on the securities. In assessing default risk on the retained subordinated securities, the Company has analyzed the projected cash flows of the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) and expects to collect all of the
contractual cash flows due on the securities. 
Overall, for the investment securities in gross unrealized loss positions
identified above (a) the Company does not intend to sell the securities, (b) it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the securities before recovery of the unrealized losses, and (c) the Company expects
that the contractual principal and interest will be received on the securities. 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION 
Gross realized gains and losses on sales of investment securities, included in other non-interest revenues, are as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Gains
226
(a)
20
14
Losses
(1
(8
(5
Total
225
12
9
(a)
Primarily represents the gain from the sale of 50 percent of the Company’s investment in ICBC. 
Contractual maturities of investment securities, excluding equity securities and
other securities (primarily mutual funds with no stated maturity), as of December 31, 2009, are as follows: 
(Millions)
Cost
Estimated
Fair Value
Due in:
Due within 1 year
10,285
10,333
Due after 1 year but within 5 years
6,439
6,919
Due after 5 years but within 10 years
704
759
Due after 10 years
5,974
5,756
Total
23,402
23,767
The Company’s individual investments in the unrated classes of its retained subordinated securities contain multiple maturity dates over periods ranging from 2010 through 2018. Accordingly, in the table above, the Company has
classified such investments based on the weighted-average maturity. In addition, the expected payments on state and municipal obligations and mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their contractual maturities because borrowers have the
right to call or prepay certain obligations. 
86 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 7 
ASSET SECURITIZATIONS 
The Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables and loans arising from its card business
through the transfer of those assets to a trust. The trust then issues securities to third-party investors, collateralized by the transferred assets. Securitization transactions are accounted for as either sales or secured borrowings, based on the
structure of the transaction and the current GAAP requirements. Refer to Note 1 for a description of the changes in GAAP governing the accounting for transfers of financial assets, which will result in all securitization transactions being accounted
for as secured borrowings by the Company effective January 1, 2010. 
Based on GAAP in effect at December 31, 2009, in
order for a securitization of financial assets to be accounted for as a sale, the transferor must surrender control over those financial assets to the extent that the transferor receives consideration other than beneficial interests in the
transferred assets. 
Cardmember loans are transferred to the American Express Credit Account Master Trust, the Lending Trust,
which meets the criteria of a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), and such transactions qualify as accounting sales through year-end, 2009. Accordingly, when loans were sold through securitizations, the Company removed the loans from its
Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized a gain or loss on sale and retained interests in the securitizations. 
Cardmember
receivables are transferred to the American Express Issuance Trust, the Charge Trust, which is not a QSPE. Securitizations of cardmember receivables are accounted for as secured borrowings. 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET SECURITIZATIONS 
Servicing Portfolio 
In consideration for the transfer of the current cardmember loans, as well as the future cash flows
related to the cardmember account, the Company, through its subsidiaries, receives an undivided, pro rata interest in the trust referred to as seller’s interest, which is equal to the balance of all cardmember loans ($36.2 billion and $40.5
billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) transferred to the Lending Trust plus the associated accrued interest receivable ($918 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) less the investors’
portion of those assets (securitized cardmember loans). Seller’s interest is reported as cardmember loans on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Any accrued interest related to the investors’ portion of securitized cardmember
loans is reported as other assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The Company retains servicing
responsibilities for the transferred cardmember loans through its subsidiary, American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (TRS), and earns a related fee. No servicing asset or liability is recognized at the time of a securitization
because the Company receives adequate compensation relative to current market servicing fees. 
The following table illustrates the activity in
the Lending Trust (including the securitized cardmember loans and seller’s interest) for the years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Lending Trust assets, January 1
41,579
36,194
Account additions, net
2,956
10,187
Cardmember activity, net
(7,457
(4,802 
Lending Trust assets, December 31
37,078
41,579
Securitized cardmember loans, January 1
28,955
22,670
Impact of issuances, external
2,250
9,640
Impact of issuances, retained
2,013
1,315
Impact of maturities
(4,892 
(4,670
Securitized cardmember loans, December 31
28,326
28,955
Seller’s interest, January 1
12,624
13,524
Impact of issuances
(4,263
(10,955
Impact of maturities
4,892
4,670
Account additions, net
2,956
10,187
Cardmember activity, net
(7,457
(4,802 
Seller’s interest, December 31
8,752
12,624
The Company announced in the second quarter of 2009 that certain actions affecting outstanding series of securities issued by the Lending Trust were completed in order to adjust the credit enhancement structure of substantially all of the
outstanding series of securities previously issued by the Lending Trust. These actions were to address the concerns of rating agencies and the decline in the trust excess spread due to the performance of the underlying credit card receivables in the
Lending Trust. The actions, which are permitted by the transaction documents governing the Lending Trust, consisted of the following: 
1.
Issuance of two new series of investor certificates (collectively, the “Series D Certificates”) equaling approximately $1.5 billion in aggregate. The Series D
Certificates were acquired by the Company in exchange for a portion of the sellers’ interest in the Lending Trust. The D Certificates, which were issued at a market interest rate, are subordinated to all other investor certificates and
therefore provide additional credit enhancement to all outstanding series. These certificates have various maturities, including a final maturity of 2018. 
87 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
2.
Designation of a percentage of new principal receivables arising from accounts in the Lending Trust as “Discount Option Receivables” (as defined in the
Lending Trust documentation). As permitted under the terms of the transaction documents governing the Lending Trust, collections on Discount Option Receivables may be applied as finance charge collections, which increased the yield on the assets in
the Lending Trust by approximately 400-650 basis points beginning with the July 2009 monthly reporting period. The designation of Discount Option Receivables is scheduled to continue through 2010. 
The actions described above did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. 
Securitization Income 
The
following table summarizes the activity related to securitized loans reported in securitization income, net for the years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Excess spread, net
(a)
(155
544
1,025
Servicing fees
562
543
425
(Losses) Gains on sales from securitizations
(b)
(7
(17
57
Securitization income, net
400
1,070
1,507
(a)
Excess spread, net is the net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the investors’ interests after deducting the interest paid on investor
certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees, other expenses, and the changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip. This amount excludes issuer rate fee collections, which are a portion of monthly discount revenue that is earned
and collected by the Company on new transactions by cardmembers that have their loans sold into the Lending Trust. These cash flows are available to pay monthly Lending Trust expenses. The issuer rate is reported in discount revenue in the
Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. In periods when the excess spread, net in the Lending Trust becomes negative, and the issuer rate fee collections are utilized to pay Lending Trust expenses, the Company recognizes an expense in
securitization income, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(b)
Excludes $201 million and $(393) million of credit provision impact from cardmember loan sales and maturities for 2009, $446 million and $(177) million of credit
provision impact from cardmember loan sales and maturities for 2008, as well as $144 million and $(84) million of credit provision impact from cardmember loan sales and maturities for 2007. 
At the time of a cardmember loan securitization, the Company records a gain (loss) on sale, which is calculated as the difference between the proceeds from
the sale and the book basis of the cardmember loans sold. The book basis is determined by allocating the carrying amount of the sold cardmember loans, net of applicable credit reserves, between the cardmember loans sold and the interests retained
based on their relative fair values. Such fair values are based on market prices at the date of transfer for the sold cardmember loans and on the estimated present value of future cash flows for retained interests. Gains (losses) on sale from
securitizations are reported in securitization income, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. The income component resulting from the release of credit reserves upon sale of cardmember loans is reported as a reduction of
provision for losses from cardmember loans. The removal of credit reserves in connection with retained subordinated securities is offset in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities. 
Retained Interests in Securitized Assets and Fair Value Measurement 
The Company retains subordinated interests in the securitized cardmember loans. These interests include one or more A-rated, BBB-rated and unrated investments in tranches of the securitization
(subordinated securities) and an interest-only strip. The following table presents retained interests for the years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Subordinated securities
(a)
3,599
744
Interest-only strip
(b)
20
32
Total retained interests
3,619
776
(a)
The subordinated securities are accounted for at fair value as available-for-sale investment securities and are reported in investments on the Company’s
Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains (losses) recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. 
(b)
The interest-only strip is accounted for at fair value and is reported in other assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fair value
recorded in securitization income, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Refer to Note 3 for a
description of the Company’s methodology for determining the fair value of retained subordinated interests and interest-only strips and related fair value disclosures. 
88 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Changes in the estimates and assumptions used may have a significant impact on the Company’s valuation of the retained interests. The key
economic assumptions used in measuring the interest-only strip asset at the time of issuance as well as at December 31, 2009, and the sensitivity of the fair value to immediate 10 percent and 20 percent adverse changes in these assumptions are
as follows (rates are per annum): 
Interest-Only
Strip
At time of issuance
As of December 31, 2009
(Millions, except
rates per annum)
2009
2008
Assumptions
Impact on
fair value
of 10%
adverse
change
(a)
Finance
charge yield
13.2%-13.5
13.5%-15.6
12.4%-13.4
(77.8
(b)
Expected
credit losses
9.8%-10.9
4.3%-5.8
7.6%-8.7
(50.7
(b)
LIBOR
0.3%-0.9
2.7%-4.6
0.2%-0.6
(1.7
Monthly payment
rate
23.0%-23.1
23.8%-24.7
25.5
(0.1
Discount
rate
14.3%-17.2
11.0%-12.0
12.4
(a)
The impact on fair value of a 20 percent adverse change is approximately two times the impact of a 10 percent adverse change identified above. 
(b)
The fair value of the interest-only strip is $20 million as of December 31, 2009. Therefore, a 10 percent adverse change in the assumption would result in the fair
value of the interest-only strip written down to zero. 
The key assumptions and the sensitivity of the current year’s fair
value of the retained subordinated securities to immediate 10 percent and 20 percent adverse changes in these key assumptions are as follows: 
Retained
Subordinated Securities
(Millions, except
rates per annum)
Assumptions
Impact on fair
value of 10%
adverse change
Impact on fair
value of 20%
adverse change
Discount rate
2.5%-20.7%
(57.2
(112.0
LIBOR
1.0%-3.9 %
1.5
3.0
This sensitivity analysis does not represent management’s expectations of adverse changes in these assumptions but is provided as a hypothetical scenario to assess the sensitivity of the fair value of the retained subordinated
interests to changes in key inputs. Management cannot extrapolate changes in fair value based on a 10 percent or 20 percent change in all key assumptions simultaneously in part because the relationship of the change in one assumption on the fair
value of the retained interest is calculated independently from any change in another assumption. Changes in one factor may cause changes in another, which could magnify or offset the sensitivities. 
Other Disclosures 
The table below
summarizes cash flows received from the Lending Trust for the years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Proceeds from new securitizations during the period
(a)
2,244
9,619
Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving cardmember securitizations
81,654
78,164
Servicing fees received
562
543
Excess spread received, including issuer rate collections and discounting
2,520
2,363
(a)
Net of issuance expenses. 
The following table
presents quantitative information about delinquencies, net credit losses, and components of securitized cardmember loans as of December 31: 
(Billions)
Total Amount
of
Cardmember
Loans
Amount of
Loans 30
Days or
More Past
Due
Net
Credit
Write-offs
During
the Year
2009
Cardmember loans managed
(a)
61.1
2.2
6.2
Less: Cardmember loans securitized
28.3
1.0
2.8
Cardmember loans on-balance sheet
32.8
1.2
3.4
2008
Cardmember loans managed
71.2
3.3
4.9
Less: Cardmember loans securitized
29.0
1.4
1.7
Cardmember loans on-balance sheet
42.2
1.9
3.2
(a)
Excludes subordinated accrued interest receivable classified in other assets of $719 million and $807 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Refer
to Note 8. 
ON-BALANCE SHEET SECURITIZATIONS 
The Company’s securitizations of cardmember receivables are accounted for as secured borrowings. The Charge Trust is

89 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

considered a variable interest entity and is consolidated by American Express Receivables Financing Corporation V, LLC, its primary beneficiary, which is in turn consolidated by the Company.

The cardmember receivables securitized through this entity are not accounted for as sold and continue to be reported as owned
assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The related securities issued to third-party investors are reported as long-term debt on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The following table summarizes the total assets and liabilities held by the Charge Trust as of December 31: 
(Billions)
2009
2008
Assets
8.3
7.8
Liabilities
5.0
5.0
These receivables are available only for payment of the debt or other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions. For these assets, the carrying values approximate fair value because these are short-term in duration.
The long-term debt is payable only out of collections on the underlying securitized assets. The fair value of these liabilities was $5.0 billion and $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
LENDING TRUST AND CHARGE TRUST TRIGGERS 
Under the respective terms of the Lending Trust and the Charge Trust agreements, the occurrence of certain events could result in payment of trust expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in a worst-case scenario, early amortization of
investor certificates. 
The following table below presents key metrics reported by each trust as of December 31, 2009:

Lending
Trust
Charge
Trust
Excess spread rate, net:
(a)
(b)
3-month average — Trigger event
Trust trigger for reserve account funding
< 5.00
< 4.00
Trust trigger for early amortization
 0
 0
3-month average — Actual rate
Floating rate series
14.75
30.77
Fixed rate series
10.36
27.51
Reserve account funding 
(millions)
Required amount
(c)
Floating rate series
$0
$0
Fixed rate series
$0
$0
Seller’s interest percentage:
Required rate
 7
 15
Actual rate
25
36
Paydown rate — 3-month average:
Required rate
N/A
 60
Actual rate
N/A
94.4
(a)
The excess spread rate, net including issuer rate collections in the Lending Trust is the sum of the net cash flows of the (i) excess spread, net and
(ii) issuer rate, as a percentage of the outstanding investors’ certificates. Excess spread, net is the net cash flows from interest and fee collections allocated to the investors’ interests after deducting the interest paid on
investors’ certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other expenses. The deductions may be a greater amount than the collections, resulting in negative spread losses. Excess spread, net is reported by the Company in
securitization income, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See above for the disclosure of excess spread, net. 
(b)
The excess spread rate, net in the Charge Trust is the net cash flows from the discounted portion of principal collections allocated to the investors’ interests
after deducting the interest paid on investors’ notes, credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other expenses, as a percentage of the outstanding investors’ notes. 
(c)
If the three-month average excess spread rate, net including issuer rate collections falls below the trigger level of 5 percent or 4 percent for the Lending Trust and
Charge Trust, respectively, the affected Trust is required to fund a cash account in increasing amounts ($3 million to $1.7 billion for the Lending Trust and $11 million to $170 million for the Charge Trust) depending on the severity by which the
excess spread rate, net falls below the trigger level. 
In the event of an early amortization of the Lending Trust, the investor
certificates would be required to be repaid over an approximate four month period, based on the estimated average life of the securitized loans. Although the repayment of the investor certificates is non-recourse to the Company, the Company would
need an alternate source of funding for the lending receivables assets. 
In the event of an early amortization of the Charge
Trust, the underlying investor notes issued by the Charge Trust are required to be repaid over an approximate one month period, based on the estimated average life of the securitized receivable. 
90 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 8 
OTHER ASSETS 
The following is a summary of other assets as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Deferred tax assets, net
(a)
2,979
3,470
Goodwill
2,328
2,301
Restricted cash
(b)
2,192
238
Prepaid expenses
c)
2,114
1,712
Derivative assets
(a)
800
1,743
Subordinated accrued interest receivable
719
807
Other intangible assets, at amortized cost
717
717
Other
1,364
1,619
Total
13,213
12,607
(a)
Refer to Notes 17 and 12 for a discussion of deferred tax assets, net, and derivative assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.

(b)
Includes restricted cash of $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2009, which is held for certain asset-backed securitization maturities that will occur in the first
quarter of 2010. 
(c)
Includes prepaid miles and reward points acquired from airline and other partners of approximately $1.3 billion and $950 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009
and 2008. Of these amounts, approximately $889 million and $900 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, represented miles purchased from Delta that are generally subject to certain restrictions and will be expensed as used in
the future. 
GOODWILL 
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company assigns goodwill to its reporting units for the
purpose of impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment, or a business one level below an operating segment for which complete, discrete financial information is available that management regularly reviews. The Company
evaluates goodwill for impairment annually as of June 30 and between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that more likely than not reduce the fair value of reporting units below their carrying amounts. The goodwill impairment
test utilizes a two-step approach. The first step identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss. Goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be
supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit using widely accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings multiples or transaction multiples) or income approach (discounted cash flow methods). The fair values of
the reporting units were determined using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the income approach and the market approach. 
When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income approach, the Company uses internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows expected to be generated by the reporting units. Actual results may
differ from forecasted results. The Company uses the expected cost of equity financing, estimated using a capital asset pricing model, to discount future cash flows for each reporting unit. The Company believes the discount rates used appropriately
reflect the risks and uncertainties in the financial markets generally and specifically in the Company’s internally developed forecasts. Further, to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the discounted cash flow models, the
Company also analyzes market based multiples for similar industries of the reporting unit, where available. 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill reported in the Company’s reportable operating segments were as follows. During 2009 and 2008, there were no accumulated goodwill impairment losses.

(Millions)
USCS
ICS
GCS
GNMS
Corporate
& Other
Total
Balance as of January 1, 2008
175
519
771
27
16
1,508
Acquisitions
(a)
828
828
Dispositions
(1
(1
Other, including foreign currency translation
(10
(25
1
(34
Balance as of December 31, 2008
175
509
1,573
28
16
2,301
Other, including foreign currency translation
3
24
27
Balance as of December 31, 2009
175
512
1,597
28
16
2,328
(a)
Includes approximately $818 million related to the acquisition of General Electric Company’s commercial card and corporate purchasing business.

91 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives of 1 to 22 years. The Company reviews intangible assets for impairment quarterly and whenever events and circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be
recoverable. In addition, on an annual basis, the Company performs an impairment evaluation of all intangible assets by assessing the recoverability of the asset values based on the cash flows generated by the relevant assets or asset groups. An
impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable and exceeds the asset’s fair value. 
The components of other intangible assets were as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Gross
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net
Carrying
Amount
Gross
Carrying
Amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Net
Carrying
Amount
Customer relationships
(a)
873
(240
633
744
(135
609
Other
145
(61
84
160
(52
108
Total
1,018
(301
717
904
(187
717
(a)
Includes approximately $265 million related to a customer intangible payment made in connection with the renegotiated contract with Delta Air Lines.

Amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $140 million, $83 million and $47 million,
respectively. Intangible assets acquired in 2009 and 2008 are being amortized, on average, over 5 years and 8 years, respectively. 
Estimated
amortization expense for other intangible assets over the next five years is as follows: 
(Millions)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
Estimated amortization expense
141
125
115
105
81
OTHER 
The Company has $168 million
and $141 million in affordable housing partnership interests as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, included in other assets in the table above. The Company is a limited partner and typically has a less than 50 percent interest in the
affordable housing partnerships. These partnership interests are accounted for in accordance with GAAP governing equity method investments and joint ventures. 
92 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 9 
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS 
As of December 31, customer deposits were categorized as
interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing deposits as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
U.S.:
Interest-bearing
25,579
14,377
Non-interest-bearing
13
18
Non-U.S.:
Interest-bearing
680
1,072
Non-interest-bearing
17
19
Total customer deposits
26,289
15,486
The customer deposits are aggregated by deposit type offered by the Company as of December 31 as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
U.S. retail deposits:
Cash sweep and savings accounts
10,498
7,247
Certificates of deposit
15,081
6,258
Institutional and other deposits
710
1,981
Total customer deposits
26,289
15,486
The scheduled maturities of all certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2009 are as follows: 
(Millions)
U.S.
Non-U.S.
Total
2010
4,854
394
5,248
2011
4,993
1
4,994
2012
2,146
2,146
2013
1,715
1,715
2014
986
986
After 5 years
387
387
Total
15,081
395
15,476
As of December 31, certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or more were as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
U.S.
196
894
Non-U.S.
153
Total
196
1,047
93 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 10 
DEBT 
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 
The Company’s short-term borrowings outstanding, defined as borrowings with original maturities of less than one year, were as follows as of
December 31: 
(Millions, except percentages)
2009
2008
Outstanding
Balance
Year-End
Stated
Rate on
Debt
(a)
Year-End
Effective
Interest
Rate with
Swaps
(a)(b)
Outstanding
Balance
Year-End
Stated
Rate on
Debt
(a)
Year-End
Effective
Interest
Rate with
Swaps
(a)(b)
Commercial paper
(c)
975
0.19
7,272
2.20
Federal funds purchased
470
1.30
Other short-term borrowings
(d)
1,369
0.85
0.85
1,251
1.90
1.88
Total
2,344
0.57
8,993
2.11
(a)
For floating rate debt issuances, the stated and effective interest rates are based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
These rates may not be indicative of future interest rates. 
(b)
Effective interest rates are only presented if swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt. 
(c)
December 31, 2008 balance includes $4.5 billion of commercial paper purchased by the Federal Reserve Bank’s Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) through the
Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF). As of December 31, 2009, no commercial paper purchased by the SPV was outstanding. 
(d)
Includes interest-bearing overdrafts with banks of $277 million and $382 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, balances include
interest bearing amounts due to merchants in accordance with merchant service agreements, as well as other short-term borrowings. 
94 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
LONG-TERM DEBT 
The Company’s long-term debt outstanding, defined as debt with original maturities of one year or greater, as of December 31 was as follows: 
(Millions, except percentages)
2009
2008
Maturity
Dates
Outstanding
Balance
(a)
Year-End
Stated
Rate on
Debt
(b)
Year-End
Effective
Interest
Rate with
Swaps
(b)(c)
Outstanding
Balance
(a)
Year-End
Stated
Rate on
Debt
(b)
Year-End
Effective
Interest
Rate with
Swaps
(b)(c)
American Express Company
(Parent Company only)
Fixed Rate Senior Notes
2011–2038
9,493
6.83
6.01
7,177
6.29
5.53
Floating Rate Senior Notes
5
3.75
Subordinated Debentures
(d)
2036
750
6.80
750
6.80
American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
Fixed Rate Senior Notes
2011
700
5.25
1,500
4.76
Floating Rate Senior Notes
2011
500
0.44
5.63
500
2.10
5.63
American Express Credit Corporation
Fixed Rate Senior Notes
2010–2015
11,478
5.58
3.26
9,683
5.60
3.64
Floating Rate Senior Notes
2010–2013
4,761
1.30
7,807
1.77
2.85
Borrowings under Bank Credit Facilities
2012
3,232
4.23
4.52
2,506
4.56
4.88
American Express Centurion Bank
Fixed Rate Senior Notes
2010–2017
2,726
5.69
2.86
3,287
5.48
2.59
Floating Rate Senior Notes
2010–2012
1,975
0.31
6,300
1.15
1.44
American Express Bank, FSB
Fixed Rate Senior Notes
2011–2017
7,137
4.40
2.70
7,182
4.40
2.82
Floating Rate Senior Notes
2010–2017
4,502
0.80
1.22
8,220
1.59
1.98
American Express Receivables
Financing Corporation V LLC
Fixed Rate Senior Notes
2010
1,000
4.02
1,000
4.02
Floating Rate Senior Notes
2010–2012
3,826
0.57
3,826
1.69
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes
2010–2012
144
0.67
144
1.63
Other
Fixed Rate Instruments
(e)
2010–2014
114
4.98
154
6.79
Total
52,338
4.11
60,041
3.63
(a)
The outstanding balances reflect the impact of fair value hedge accounting whereby certain fixed rate notes have been swapped to floating rate through the use of
interest rate swaps and are marked to market, as are the associated swaps, which are reported as derivative assets or liabilities. In 2009 and 2008, the impact on long-term debt due to fair value hedge accounting was $0.6 billion and $1.0 billion,
respectively. Refer to Note 12 for more details on the Company’s treatment of fair value hedges. 
(b)
For floating rate debt issuances, the stated and effective interest rates are based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
These rates may not be indicative of future interest rates. 
(c)
Effective interest rates are only presented when swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt. 
(d)
The maturity date will automatically be extended to September 1, 2066, except in the case of either (i) a prior redemption or (ii) a default. See further
discussion below. 
(e)
Includes $87 million and $89 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to a sale-leaseback transaction completed in 2004.

95 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
As of December 31, 2009, the Parent Company had $750 million principal outstanding of Subordinated Debentures that accrue interest at an
annual rate of 6.80 percent until September 1, 2016, and at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus 2.23 percent thereafter. At the Company’s option, the Subordinated Debentures are redeemable for cash after September 1, 2016 at 100
percent of the principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest. If the Company fails to achieve specified performance measures, it will be required to issue its common shares and apply the net proceeds to make interest payments on the
Subordinated Debentures. No dividends on the Company’s common or preferred shares could be paid until such interest payments are made. The Company would fail to meet these specific performance measures if (i) the Company’s tangible
common equity is less than 4 percent of total adjusted assets for the most recent quarter or (ii) if the trailing two quarters’ consolidated net income is equal to or less than zero and tangible common equity as of the trigger
determination date, and as of the end of the quarter end six months prior, has in each case declined by 10 percent or more from the tangible common equity as of the end of the quarter 18 months prior to the trigger determination date. The Company
met the specified performance measures in 2009. 
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company was not in violation of any
of its debt covenants. 
Aggregate annual maturities on long-term debt
obligations (based on final maturity dates) were as follows as of December 31, 2009: 
(Millions)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
Thereafter
Total
American Express Company (Parent Company only)
399
998
1,248
7,598
10,243
American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
1,200
1,200
American Express Credit Corporation
3,506
2,032
4,792
5,138
3,488
515
19,471
American Express Centurion Bank
2,143
1,212
1,346
4,701
American Express Bank, FSB
1,752
5,170
1,612
1,807
1,298
11,639
American Express Receivables Financing Corporation V LLC
3,410
1,560
4,970
Other
18
9
87
114
Total
10,829
8,810
9,176
7,943
4,823
10,757
52,338
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company maintained total bank lines of credit of $12.2 billion and $11.2 billion, respectively. Of the total
credit lines, $9.0 billion and $8.7 billion were unutilized, and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, the Company paid $6.8 million and $6.0 million in fees to maintain these lines. $8.2 billion and $7.9 billion of
these unutilized amounts supported commercial paper borrowings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
The
availability of these credit lines is subject to the Company’s compliance with certain financial covenants, including the maintenance by the Company of consolidated tangible net worth of at least $4.1 billion, the maintenance by American
Express Credit Corporation (Credco) of a 1.25 ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges, and the compliance by American Express Centurion Bank (Centurion Bank) and American Express Bank, FSB (FSB) with applicable regulatory
capital adequacy guidelines. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s consolidated tangible net worth was approximately $11.6 billion, Credco’s ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges was 1.59 and Centurion Bank
and FSB each exceeded their regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. 
The committed bank credit facilities do not contain
material adverse change clauses and the facilities may not be terminated should there be a change in the Company’s credit rating. 
The Company paid total interest primarily related to short- and long-term debt, corresponding interest rate swaps and customer deposits of $2.3 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
96 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 11 
OTHER LIABILITIES 
The following is a summary of other liabilities as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Membership Rewards liabilities
4,303
4,643
Employee-related liabilities
(a)
1,877
2,026
Rebate accruals
(b)
1,309
1,255
Deferred charge card fees, net
1,034
1,041
Other
(c) 
5,287
5,627
Total
13,810
14,592
(a)
Employee-related liabilities include employee benefit plan obligations and incentive compensation. 
(b)
Rebate accruals include payments to third-party card issuing partners and cash-back reward costs. 
(c)
Other includes accruals for general operating expenses, advertising and promotion, derivatives, restructuring and reengineering reserves, and minority interest in
subsidiaries. 
Membership Rewards 
The Membership Rewards program allows enrolled cardmembers to earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards, including travel, entertainment, retail certificates, and merchandise. The
Company establishes balance sheet liabilities which represent the estimated cost of points earned to date that are ultimately expected to be redeemed. These liabilities reflect management’s best estimate of future redemption costs. An ultimate
redemption rate and weighted average cost per point are key factors used to approximate the Membership Reward liability. Management uses models to estimate ultimate redemption rates based on historical redemption data, card product type, year of
program enrollment, enrollment tenure and card spend levels. The weighted-average cost per point is determined using actual redemptions during the previous 12 months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs. 
The provision for the cost of Membership Rewards points is included in marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services. The Company
continually evaluates its reserve methodology and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed, contract changes, and other factors. 
DEFERRED CHARGE CARD FEES 
The carrying amount of deferred charge card and other
fees, net of direct acquisition costs and reserves for membership cancellations as of December 31 were as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Deferred charge card and other fees
(a)
1,213
1,233
Deferred direct acquisition costs
(60
(78
Reserves for membership cancellations
(119
(114
Deferred charge card fees and other, net of direct acquisition costs and
reserves
1,034
1,041
(a)
Includes deferred fees for Membership Reward program participants. 
97 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 12 
DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to various market
risks. Market risk is the risk to earnings or value resulting from movements in market prices. The Company’s market risk exposure is primarily generated by: 
Interest rate risk in its card and insurance and travelers cheque businesses, and its investment portfolios; and 
Foreign exchange risk in its international operations. 
General principles and the overall framework for managing market risk across the Company are defined in the Market Risk Policy, which is the responsibility of the Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO). Market
risk limits and escalation triggers in that policy are approved by the ALCO and by the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Committee (ERMC). Market risk is centrally managed by the Market Risk Committee, which reports into the ALCO and is chaired by the
Chief Market Risk Officer of the Company. Market risk management is also guided by policies covering the use of derivative financial instruments, funding and liquidity and investments. Derivative financial instruments derive their value from an
underlying variable or multiple variables, including interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity indices or prices. These instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to various market risks and, for that reason, are an
integral component of the Company’s market risk management. 
The Company’s market exposures are in large part
by-products of the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate risk arises through the funding of cardmember receivables and fixed-rate loans with variable-rate borrowings as well as through the risk to net interest margin from changes in
the relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR. 
Interest rate exposure within the Company’s charge card
and fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the proportion of total funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt and deposits compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to
effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate or to convert variable-rate debt to fixed rate. The Company may change the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding based on changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors. The
majority of its cardmember loans, which are linked to a benchmark rate such as Prime that can reprice monthly, are funded with variable-rate funding, the majority of which are linked to LIBOR. 
Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency charges, foreign currency balance sheet exposures, translation of foreign
subsidiary equity, and foreign currency earnings in international units. The Company’s foreign exchange risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements to buy and sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this market exposure to the
extent it is economically justified through various means, including the use of derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward, options, and cross-currency swap contracts, which can help “lock in” the value of the
Company’s exposure to specific currencies. The Company does not engage in derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Derivative financial instruments may contain counterparty credit risk. The Company manages this risk by considering the current exposure, which is the replacement cost of contracts on the measurement date, as well as estimating the maximum
potential value of the contracts over the next 12 months, considering such factors as the volatility of the underlying or reference index. To mitigate derivative credit risk, counterparties are required to be pre-approved and rated as investment
grade. Counterparty risk exposures are monitored by the Company’s Institutional Risk Management Committee (IRMC). The IRMC formally reviews large institutional exposures to ensure compliance with the Company’s ERMC guidelines and
procedures and determines the risk mitigation actions, when necessary. Additionally, to mitigate counterparty credit risk the Company may, on occasion, enter into master netting agreements. 
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the counterparty credit risk associated with the Company’s derivative financial instruments was
not significant. In relation to the Company’s credit risk, under the terms of its derivative financial instruments, the Company is not required to either immediately settle any outstanding liability balances, or post collateral upon the
occurrence of a specified credit risk-related event. 
98 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The Company’s derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for changes in
fair value depends on the instruments’ intended use and the resulting hedge designation, if any, as discussed below. Refer to Note 3 for a description of the Company’s methodology for determining the fair value of its derivative
financial instruments. The following table summarizes the total gross fair value, excluding interest accruals, of derivative product assets and liabilities as of December 31: 
Other assets
Fair Value
Other liabilities
Fair Value
(Millions)
2009
2008
2009
2008
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments
Interest rate contracts
Fair value hedges
632
1,072
6
Cash flow hedges
1
44
125
Foreign exchange contracts
Net investment hedges
132
535
130
165
Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments
765
1,607
180
290
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
Interest rate contracts
11
9
5
20
Foreign exchange contracts
a
57
166
95
173
Equity-linked contract
b
3
Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
68
175
103
193
Total derivatives
c
833
1,782
283
483
(a)
As of December 31, 2009, foreign exchange contracts also include foreign currency derivatives embedded in certain operating agreements. 
(b)
Represents an equity-linked derivative embedded in one of the Company’s investment securities. 
(c)
GAAP permits the netting of derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and its
derivative counterparty. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, $33 million and $39 million, respectively, of derivative assets and liabilities have been offset and presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS THAT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING

Derivative financial instruments executed for hedge accounting purposes are documented and designated as such when the Company enters into the
contracts. In accordance with its risk management policies, the Company structures its hedges with very similar terms to the hedged items. The Company formally assesses, at inception of the hedge accounting relationship and on a quarterly basis,
whether derivatives designated as hedges are highly effective in offsetting the fair value or cash flows of hedged items. These assessments usually are made through the application of the regression analysis method. If it is determined that a
derivative is not highly effective as a hedge, the Company will discontinue the application of hedge accounting. 
FAIR VALUE
HEDGES 
A fair value hedge involves a derivative designated to hedge the Company’s exposure to future changes in the fair value of an
asset or a liability, or an identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular risk. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk associated with its fixed-rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to convert certain
fixed-rate long-term debt to floating-rate at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company hedged $15.1 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, of its fixed-rate debt to floating-rate debt using interest rate swaps.

To the extent the fair value hedge is effective, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument offsets the loss or gain on the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Any difference between the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item is referred to as hedge ineffectiveness and is recorded in earnings as a component of other, net expenses. Hedge
ineffectiveness may be caused by differences between the debt’s interest coupon and the benchmark rate, which is in turn primarily due to credit spreads at inception of the hedging relationship that are not reflected in the valuation of the
interest rate swap. Furthermore, hedge ineffectiveness may be caused by changes in the relationship between 3-month LIBOR and 1-month LIBOR rates, as these so-called basis spreads may impact the valuation of the interest rate swap without causing an
offsetting impact in the value of the hedged debt. If a fair value hedge is de-designated or no longer considered to be effective, changes in fair value of the 
99 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

derivative continue to be recorded through earnings but the hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in fair value. The existing basis adjustment of the hedged asset or
liability is then amortized or accreted as an adjustment to yield over the remaining life of that asset or liability. 
The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of fair value hedges associated with the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt described above for the years ended
December 31: 
Statement of Income
Derivative contract (loss)
gain
Hedged item gain (loss)
Ineffective net
(losses) gains

(Millions)
Amount
recognized
Amount
recognized 
Derivative relationship
Location
2009
2008
Location
2009
2008
2009
2008
Interest rate contracts
Other, net expenses
(446
967
Other, net expenses
437
(898
(9
69
CASH FLOW HEDGES 
A cash flow hedge
involves a derivative financial instrument designated to hedge the Company’s exposure to variable future cash flows attributable to a particular risk of an existing recognized asset or liability, or a forecasted transaction. The Company hedges
existing long-term variable-rate debt, the rollover of short-term borrowings and the anticipated forecasted issuance of additional funding through the use of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. These instruments
effectively convert floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt for the duration of the swap. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company hedged $1.6 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively, of its floating debt using interest rate swaps.

For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives are recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income and reclassified into earnings when the hedged cash flows are recognized in earnings. The amount that is reclassified into earnings is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income with the hedged
instrument or transaction impact, primarily in interest expense. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is reported as a component of other, net expenses. If a cash flow hedge is de-designated or terminated prior to maturity,
the amount previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income is recognized into earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. If a hedge relationship is discontinued because it is probable that the forecasted
transaction will not occur according to the original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income are recognized into earnings immediately. 
In the normal course of business, as the hedged cash flows are recognized into earnings, the Company expects to reclassify $32 million of net
pretax losses on derivative instruments from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income into earnings during the next 12 months. 
NET INVESTMENT HEDGES 
A net investment hedge is used to hedge future changes in currency exposure of a net investment in a
foreign operation. The Company primarily designates foreign currency derivatives, typically foreign exchange forwards, and on occasion foreign currency denominated debt, as hedges of net investments in certain foreign operations. These instruments
reduce exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on the Company’s investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. The effective portion of the gain or loss on net investment hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income as
part of the cumulative translation adjustment. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on net investment hedges is recognized in other, net expenses during the period of change. 
100 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of cash flow hedges
and net investment hedges for the years ended December 31: 
Derivative impact on statement of
income (loss) gain
Derivative ineffectiveness
(loss)
gain
(Millions)
Location
Reclassified
from
OCI into Income
Amount
Reclassified from
OCI into Income
Location
Reclassified from
OCI into Income
Amount
Derivative relationship
2009
2008
2009
2008
Cash flow hedges
(a)(b)
Interest rate contracts
Interest expense
(115
(247
Other, net expenses
Net investment hedges
(b)
Foreign exchange contracts
Other, net expenses
Other, net expenses
(1
3
(a)
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there was no impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income due to forecasted transactions no longer probable to occur.

(b)
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) and is presented in Note 15.

DERIVATIVES NOT DESIGNATED AS HEDGES

The Company has derivative financial instruments that act as economic hedges and are not designated for hedge accounting purposes. Foreign
currency transactions and non-U.S. dollar cash flow exposures from time to time may be partially or fully economically hedged through foreign currency contracts, primarily foreign exchange forwards, options, and cross-currency swaps. These hedges
generally mature within one year. Foreign currency contracts involve the purchase and sale of a designated currency at an agreed upon rate for settlement on a specified date. The changes in the fair value of the derivatives effectively offset the
related foreign exchange gains or losses on the underlying balance sheet exposures. From time to time, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps to specifically manage funding costs related to its proprietary card business. 
The Company has certain operating agreements whose payments may be linked to a market rate or price, primarily foreign currency rates. The
payment components of these agreements may meet the definition of an embedded derivative, which is assessed to determine if it requires separate accounting and reporting. If so, the embedded derivative is accounted for separately and is classified
as a foreign exchange contract based on its primary risk exposure. In addition, the Company also holds an investment security containing an embedded equity-linked derivative. 
For derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are reported in current period earnings.

The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial
Statements of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges for the years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
Income Statement
classification of gain (loss) on
derivatives not designated as hedges
Amount recognized 
Derivative relationship
2009
2008
Derivatives not designated as hedges
Interest rate contracts
Other, net expenses
17
(33
Foreign exchange contracts
(a)
Other non-interest revenues
(1
Interest and dividends on investment securities
4
13
Interest expense on short-term borrowings
5
(7
Interest expense on long-term debt and other
35
22
Other, net expenses
(5
(38
Equity-linked contract
Other non-interest revenues
1
Total
56
(43
(a)
For the period ended December 31, 2009, foreign exchange contracts include embedded foreign currency derivatives. Gains (Losses) on embedded derivatives are
included in other, net expenses. 
101 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 13 
GUARANTEES 
The Company provides cardmember protection plans that cover losses
associated with purchased products, as well as certain other guarantees in the ordinary course of business which are within the scope of GAAP governing the accounting for guarantees. For the Company, guarantees primarily consist of card and travel
protection programs, including: 
Credit Card Registry — cancels and requests replacement of lost or stolen cards, and provides for fraud liability coverage;

Return Protection — refunds the price of eligible purchases made with the card where the merchant will not accept the return for up to 90 days
from the date of purchase; 
Account Protection — provides account protection in the event that a cardmember is unable to make payments on the account due to unforeseen
hardship; and, 
Merchant Protection — protects cardmembers primarily against non-delivery of goods and services, usually in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation
of a merchant. In the event that a dispute is resolved in the cardmember’s favor, the Company will credit the cardmember account for the amount of the purchase and will seek recovery from the merchant. If the Company is unable to collect the
amount from the merchant, it will bear the loss for the amount credited to the cardmember. The Company mitigates this risk by withholding settlement from the merchant or obtaining deposits and other guarantees from merchants considered higher risk
due to various factors. The amounts being held by the Company are not significant when compared to the maximum potential amount of future payments under this guarantee. 
In relation to its maximum amount of undiscounted future payments as seen in the table that follows, to date the Company has
not experienced any significant losses related to guarantees. The Company’s initial recognition of guarantees is at fair value, which has been determined in accordance with GAAP governing fair value measurement. In addition, the Company
establishes reserves when an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. 
The
following table provides information related to such guarantees as of December 31: 
Maximum amount
of undiscounted
future payments
(a)
(Billions)
Amount of related
liability
(b)
(Millions)
Type of Guarantee
2009
2008
2009
2008
Card and travel operations
(c)
66
69
112
99
Other
(d)
1
1
74
93
Total
67
70
186
192
(a)
Represents the notional amounts that could be lost under the guarantees and indemnifications if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The Merchant
Protection guarantee is calculated using management’s best estimate of maximum exposure based on all eligible claims as measured against annual billed business volumes. 
(b)
Included as part of other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(c)
Includes Credit Card Registry, Return Protection, Account Protection and Merchant Protection, which the Company offers directly to cardmembers.

(d)
Other primarily includes guarantees related to the Company’s business dispositions, real estate, and tax, as well as contingent consideration obligations, each of
which are individually smaller indemnifications. 
Refer to Note 26 for a discussion of additional guarantees of the Company as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
102 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 14 
COMMON AND PREFERRED SHARES AND WARRANTS 
As of December 31, 2009, the
Company has 100 million common shares remaining under share repurchase authorizations. Such authorizations do not have an expiration date, and at present, there is no intention to modify or otherwise rescind the current authorizations.

Common shares are generally retired by the Company upon repurchase (except for 5.0 million, 0.4 million and
0.5 million shares held as treasury shares at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively); retired common shares and treasury shares are excluded from the shares outstanding in the table below. The Treasury shares, with a cost basis of
$235 million, $21 million and $29 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are included as a reduction to additional paid-in capital in shareholders’ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The following table shows authorized shares and provides a reconciliation of common shares issued and outstanding: 
(Millions, except where indicated)
2009
2008
2007
Common shares authorized 
(billions)
(a)
3.6
3.6
3.6
Shares issued and outstanding at beginning of year
1,160
1,158
1,199
Issuances (Repurchases) of common shares
22
(5
(60
Other, primarily stock option exercises and RSAs granted
10
7
19
Shares issued and outstanding as of December 31,
1,192
1,160
1,158
(a)
Of the common shares authorized but unissued as of December 31, 2009, approximately 124 million shares were reserved for issuance under employee stock and
employee benefit plans. 
The Board of Directors is
authorized to permit the Company to issue up to 20 million preferred shares at a par value of $1.66 2/3 without further shareholder approval. 
On January 9, 2009, under the United States Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) Capital Purchase Program (CPP), the Company issued to the Treasury Department as consideration for
aggregate proceeds of $3.39 billion: (1) 3.39 million shares of Fixed Rate (5 percent) Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares Series A (the Preferred Shares), and (2) a ten-year warrant (the Warrant) for the
Treasury Department to purchase up to 24 million common shares at an exercise price of $20.95 per share. Upon issuance, $3.16 billion of the proceeds were allocated to the Preferred Shares, and $232 million of the proceeds were
allocated to the Warrant based on their relative fair values at the date of issuance. 
As a pre-condition of the repurchase of
the Preferred Shares, the Treasury Department and the Company’s Banking Regulator required that the Company raise capital in the public markets. As a result, the Company issued $3.0 billion of non-guaranteed senior debt on May 18, 2009 and
approximately 22 million common shares at $25.25 per share in June 2009. 
On June 17, 2009, the Company repurchased
the Preferred Shares at their face value of $3.39 billion. Because the $3.39 billion cash paid exceeded the $3.18 billion amortized carrying amount of the Preferred Shares, the $212 million excess represented an in-substance
Preferred Share dividend that reduced earnings per share (EPS) attributable to common shareholders by $0.18 for the year ended December 31, 2009. Refer to Note 18. 
On July 29, 2009, the Company repurchased the Warrant for $340 million. The Warrant repurchase resulted in reductions of cash,
retained earnings and additional paid-in-capital on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Warrant repurchase had no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement and EPS for the year ended December 31, 2009. There were no preferred
shares or warrants issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009. 
103 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 15 
CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME 
Accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) is a balance sheet item in the Shareholders’ Equity section of the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is comprised of items that have not been recognized in earnings but may be recognized in
earnings in the future when certain events occur. Changes in each component of OCI for the three years ended December 31, were as follows: 
(Millions), net of tax
(a)
Net
Unrealized
Gains (Losses)
on Investment
Securities
Net
Unrealized
Gains (Losses)
on
Derivatives
Foreign
Currency
Translation
Adjustments
Net
Unrealized
Pension
and Other
Postretirement
Benefit Costs

Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
(Loss) Income 
Balances as of December 31, 2006
92
27
(222
(417
(520
Net unrealized gains (losses)
(80
(68
(148
Reclassification for realized (gains) losses into earnings
(5
(30
3
(32
Other losses
(b)
(47
(47
Foreign currency translation adjustments
347
347
Net losses related to hedges of investment in foreign operations
(380
(380
Pension and other postretirement benefit costs
285
285
Discontinued operations
(c)
52
(3
4
53
Net change in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income
(80
(98
(33
289
78
Balances as of December 31, 2007
12
(71
(255
(128
(442
Net unrealized gains (losses)
(718
(170
(888
Reclassification for realized (gains) losses into earnings
(8
161
153
Foreign currency translation adjustments
(1,102
(1,102
Net gains related to hedges of investment in foreign operations
961
961
Pension and other postretirement benefit costs
(329
(329
Discontinued operations
(c)
15
28
(2
41
Net change in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income 
(711
(9
(113
(331
(1,164
104 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
(Millions), net of tax
(a)
Net
Unrealized
Gains (Losses)
on Investment
Securities
Net
Unrealized
Gains (Losses)
on
Derivatives
Foreign
Currency
Translation
Adjustments
Net
Unrealized
Pension
and Other
Postretirement
Benefit Costs

Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
(Loss) Income 
Balances as of December 31, 2008
(699
(80
(368
(459
(1,606
Net unrealized gains (losses)
1,351
(22
1,329
Reclassification for realized (gains) losses into earnings
(145
74
(71
Foreign currency translation adjustments
(d)
523
523
Net losses related to hedges of investment in foreign operations
(877
(877
Pension and other postretirement benefit costs
(10
(10
Net change in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income 
1,206
52
(354
(10
894
Balances as of December 31, 2009
507
(28
(722
(469
(712
(a)
The following table shows the tax impact for the three years ended December 31, for the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income:

(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Investment securities
749
(472
(84
Derivatives
29
(4
(56
Foreign currency translation adjustments
33
(66
17
Pension and other postretirement benefit costs
(28
(159
152
Discontinued operations
(c)
16
29
Total tax impact
783
(685
58
(b)
In connection with the Company’s adoption of hybrid financial instrument accounting requirements, as of January 1, 2007, the Company recognized a gain of $80
million ($50 million after-tax) related to the fair value of the interest-only strip, which was recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income in previous periods. Changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip subsequent to the adoption of
this standard are reflected in securitization income, net. 
(c)
Relates to the change in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income prior to the dispositions of AEB and AEIDC. 
(d)
Includes a $190 million other comprehensive loss, recorded in the third quarter of 2009, representing the correction of an error related to the accounting in prior
periods for cumulative translation adjustments associated with a net investment in foreign subsidiaries. (Refer to Note 19 for further details). 
105 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 16 
RESTRUCTURING CHARGES 
During 2009, the Company recorded $185 million of restructuring charges, net of adjustments of
previously accrued amounts due to revisions of prior estimates. The 2009 activity primarily relates to the $199 million of restructuring charges the Company recorded in the second quarter to further reduce its operating costs by downsizing and
reorganizing certain operations. These restructuring activities were for the elimination of approximately 4,000 positions or about 6 percent of the Company’s total worldwide workforce and occurred across all business units, markets and staff
groups. Additional restructuring charges of $38 million taken in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 relate principally to the reorganization of certain senior leadership positions, as well as the exit of a business in the Global
Network & Merchant Services (GNMS) segment. The Company also recorded adjustments of $(52) million during 2009 that primarily relate to revisions of prior estimates for higher employee redeployments to other positions within the Company,
business changes and modifications to existing initiatives. These modifications do not constitute a significant change in the original restructuring plan from an overall Company perspective. 
During 2008, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $434 million, net of adjustments of previously accrued amounts due to revisions of
prior estimates. While the Company’s restructuring activity in the first and third quarters of 2008 primarily related to exiting certain international banking businesses, the Company recorded $410 million of restructuring charges in the fourth
quarter of 2008 in order to further reduce the Company’s cost structure. This restructuring was for the elimination of approximately 7,000 positions or approximately 10 percent of its total worldwide workforce. These reductions primarily
occurred across business units, markets and staff groups focusing on management and other positions that do not interact directly with customers, and related to reorganizing or automating certain internal processes; outsourcing certain operations to
third parties; and discontinuing or relocating business activities to other locations. During 2007, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $49 million, net of adjustments of previously accrued amounts due to revisions of prior estimates,
primarily related to the reorganizations within the Company’s business travel, operations, finance, and technology areas. 
Restructuring charges related to severance obligations are included in salaries and employee benefits and discontinued operations in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income, while charges pertaining to other exit costs are
included in occupancy and equipment, professional services, other, net expenses and discontinued operations. 
The following table summarizes the Company’s restructuring reserves activity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: 
(Millions)
Severance
(a)
Other
(b)
Total
Liability balance as of December 31, 2006
89
4
93
Restructuring charges, net of $17 in adjustments
(c)
34
15
49
Payments
(61
(6
(67
Other non-cash
(2
(4
(6
Liability balance as of December 31, 2007
60
9
69
Restructuring charges, net of $10 in adjustments
(c)(d)
366
68
434
Payments
(63
(13
(76
Other non-cash
2
(2
Liability balance as of December 31, 2008
365
62
427
Restructuring charges, net of $52 in adjustments
(e)
161
24
185
Payments
(287
(45
(332
Other non-cash
(f)
14
(9
5
Liability balance as of December 31, 2009
(g)
253
32
285
(a)
Accounted for in accordance with the GAAP governing the accounting for nonretirement postemployment benefits and for costs associated with exit or disposal activities.

(b)
Other primarily includes facility exit, asset impairment and contract termination costs. 
(c)
Adjustments primarily relate to higher than anticipated redeployments of displaced employees to other positions within the Company. 
(d)
Includes $17 million related to discontinued operations. 
(e)
Adjustments of $52 million were recorded in the Company’s reportable operating segments as follows: $6 million in USCS, $28 million in ICS, $(15) million in GCS,
$3 million in GNMS, and $30 million in Corporate & Other. These adjustments primarily relate to higher employee redeployments to other positions within the Company, business changes and modifications to existing initiatives.

(f)
Consists primarily of foreign exchange impacts offset by asset impairments directly related to restructuring activity. 
106 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
(g)
The majority of cash payments related to the remaining restructuring liabilities are expected to be completed in 2010, with the exception of certain smaller amounts
related to contractual long-term severance arrangements which are expected to be completed in 2012, and certain lease obligations which will continue until their expiration in 2018. 
The following table summarizes the Company’s restructuring charges, net of adjustments, by reportable segment for the year ended December 31, 2009,
and the cumulative amounts relating to the restructuring programs that were in progress during 2009 and initiated at various dates between 2006 and 2009. 
2009
Cumulative Restructuring Expense Incurred to Date on
in-Progress Restructuring Programs
(Millions)
Total Restructuring
Charges net of
adjustments
Severance
Other
Total
USCS
12
64
6
70
ICS
9
86
5
91
GCS
99
228
30
258
GNMS
21
51
8
59
Corporate & Other
(a)
44
160
48
208
Total
185
589
97
686
(b)
(a)
The Corporate & Other segment includes certain 2009 and 2008 severance and other charges of $6 million and $133 million, respectively, related to Company-wide
support functions which were not allocated to the Company’s operating segments, as these were corporate initiatives and are consistent with how such charges were reported internally. 
(b)
As of December 31, 2009, the total expenses to be incurred for previously approved restructuring activities that were in progress are not expected to be materially
different than the cumulative expenses incurred to date for these programs. 
107 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 17 
INCOME TAXES 
The components of income tax expense included in the Consolidated
Statements of Income were as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Current income tax expense (benefit):
U.S. federal
661
735
1,631
U.S. state and local
40
(28
246
Non-U.S.
295
352
408
Total current income tax expense
996
1,059
2,285
Deferred income tax (benefit) expense:
U.S. federal
(231
(150
(496
U.S. state and local
24
(84
(22
Non-U.S.
(85
(115
(199
Total deferred income tax benefit
(292
(349
(717
Total income tax expense on continuing operations
704
710
1,568
Income tax expense (benefit) from discontinued operations
4
12
(49
A
reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company’s actual income tax rate for the years ended December 31 on continuing operations was as follows: 
2009
2008
2007
Combined tax at U.S. statutory federal income tax rate
35.0
35.0
35.0
Increase (Decrease) in taxes resulting from:
Tax-exempt income
(4.6
(3.9
(2.8
State and local income taxes, net of federal benefit
2.7
1.6
2.6
Non-U.S. subsidiaries earnings
(6.8
(8.4
(5.0
Tax settlements
(a)
(1.4
(5.5
(2.2
All other
(0.1
1.0
(0.1
Actual tax rates
24.8
19.8
27.5
(a)
Relates to the resolution of tax matters in various jurisdictions. 
The Company records a deferred income tax (benefit) provision when there are differences between assets and
liabilities measured for financial reporting and for income tax return purposes. These temporary differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
differences are expected to reverse. The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are reflected in the following table: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Deferred tax assets:
Reserves not yet deducted for tax purposes
3,495
3,559
Employee compensation and benefits
717
680
Net unrealized securities losses
458
Other
114
246
Gross deferred tax assets
4,326
4,943
Valuation allowance
(60
(69
Deferred tax assets after valuation allowance
4,266
4,874
Deferred tax liabilities:
Intangibles and fixed assets
744
713
Deferred revenue
49
531
Asset securitizations
70
84
Net unrealized securities gains
291
Other
133
76
Gross deferred tax liabilities
1,287
1,404
Net deferred tax assets
2,979
3,470
A valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowances as of December 31, 2009
and 2008 are associated with non-U.S. operations and relate to all of the Company’s net operating losses and other deferred tax assets. 
Accumulated earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, which totaled approximately $6.6 billion as of December 31, 2009, are intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. The
Company does not provide for federal income taxes on foreign earnings intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. Accordingly, federal taxes, which would have aggregated approximately $1.8 billion as of December 31,
2009, have not been provided on those earnings. 
Net income taxes paid by the Company (including amounts related to
discontinued operations) during 2009, 2008 and 2007, were approximately $0.4 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. These amounts include estimated tax payments and cash settlements relating to prior tax years. 
108 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The Company, its wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, and certain non-U.S. subsidiaries file
a consolidated federal income tax return. The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the
manner in which they apply to the taxpayer’s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. Given these inherent complexities, the Company must make judgments in assessing the likelihood that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the tax position. A tax position is recognized only when, based on management’s judgment regarding the application of income tax laws, it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
sustained upon examination. The amount of benefit recognized for financial reporting purposes is based on management’s best judgment of the most likely outcome resulting from examination given the facts, circumstances and information available
at the reporting date. The Company adjusts the level of unrecognized tax benefits when there is new information available to assess the likelihood of the outcome. 
The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and tax authorities in other countries and states in which the Company has significant business operations. The tax years
under examination and open for examination vary by jurisdiction. In June 2008, the IRS completed its field examination of the Company’s federal tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002. In July 2009, the IRS completed its field
examination of the Company’s federal tax returns for the years 2003 and 2004. However, all of these years continue to remain open as a consequence of certain issues under appeal. The Company is currently under examination by the IRS for the
years 2005 through 2007. 
The following table presents changes in the unrecognized tax benefits: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Balance, January 1
1,176
1,112
1,143
Increases:
Current year tax positions
39
81
165
Tax positions related to prior years
161
409
95
Effects of foreign currency translations
1
1
Decreases:
Tax positions related to prior years
(197
(208
(164
Settlements with tax authorities
(97
(213
(126
Lapse of statute of limitations
(2
(3
(2
Effects of foreign currency translations
(2
Balance, December 31
1,081
1,176
1,112
Included in the $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are
approximately $480 million, $452 million and $597 million, respectively that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate in a future period. These benefits primarily relate to the Company’s gross permanent benefits and
corresponding foreign tax credits and federal tax effects.
The Company believes it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized
tax benefits could decrease within the next 12 months by as much as $580 million principally as a result of potential resolutions of prior years’ tax items with various taxing authorities. The prior years’ tax items include
unrecognized tax benefits relating to the timing of recognition of certain gross income, the deductibility of certain expenses or losses, and the attribution of taxable income to a particular jurisdiction or jurisdictions. Of the $580 million of
unrecognized tax benefits, approximately $318 million are temporary differences that, if recognized, would only impact the effective rate due to net interest assessments and state tax rate differentials. With respect to the remaining decrease of
$262 million, it is not possible to quantify the impact that the decrease could have on the effective tax rate and net income due to the inherent complexities and the number of tax years open for examination in multiple
jurisdictions. Resolution of the prior years’ items that comprise this remaining amount could have an impact on the effective tax rate and on net income, either favorably (principally as a result of settlements that are less than the
liability for unrecognized tax benefits) or unfavorably (if such settlements exceed the liability for unrecognized tax benefits). 
Interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits are reported in income tax provision. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized approximately $1 million, $60 million and $17 million,
respectively, of interest and penalties. The Company has approximately $282 million and $285 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
109 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 18 
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
The computations of basic and diluted EPS for the years
ended December 31 were as follows: 
(Millions, except per share amounts)
2009
2008
2007
Numerator:
Basic and diluted:
Income from continuing operations
2,137
2,871
4,126
Preferred shares dividends, accretion, and recognition of remaining unaccreted dividends
(a)
(306
Earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items
(22
(15
(26
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
(7
(172
(114
Net income attributable to common shareholders
1,802
2,684
3,986
Denominator:
Basic: Weighted-average common stock
1,168
1,154
1,173
Add: Weighted-average stock options and warrants
(b)
3
2
20
Diluted
1,171
1,156
1,193
Basic EPS
(c)
Income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders
1.55
2.47
3.49
Loss from discontinued operations
(0.01
(0.14
(0.09
Net income attributable to common shareholders
1.54
2.33
3.40
Diluted EPS
(c)
Income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders
1.54
2.47
3.44
Loss from discontinued operations
(0.15
(0.10
Net income attributable to common shareholders
1.54
2.32
3.34
(a)
Includes the accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of
preferred shares on June 17, 2009 issued as part of the CPP. Also includes $74 million of preferred dividends paid and $20 million of preferred dividend accretion during 2009. 
(b)
For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the dilutive effect of unexercised stock options excludes 71 million, 45 million and 8 million
options, respectively, from the computation of EPS because inclusion of the options would have been anti-dilutive. 
(c)
Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities requires that
restricted stock awards be included in the computation of basic and diluted EPS pursuant to the two-class method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for 2008 and 2007. 
The Subordinated Debentures, discussed in Note 10, would affect the EPS computation only in the unlikely event the Company fails to achieve specified
performance measures related to the Company’s tangible common equity and consolidated net income. In that circumstance the Company would reflect the additional common shares in the EPS computation. 
NOTE 19 
DETAILS
OF CERTAIN CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME LINES 
The following is a detail of other commissions and fees for the years ended
December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Foreign currency conversion revenue
672
755
718
Delinquency fees
526
852
879
Service fees
335
459
513
Other
245
241
307
Total other commissions and fees
1,778
2,307
2,417
The following is a detail of other revenues for the years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Insurance premium revenue
293
326
349
Publishing revenue
224
327
345
Gain on investment securities
225
12
9
Other
1,345
1,492
1,048
Total other revenues
2,087
2,157
1,751
Other revenues includes insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other insurance programs, publishing revenues, revenues arising from contracts with Global Network Services (GNS) partners including royalties and signing fees,
and other miscellaneous revenue and fees. 
110 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The following is a detail of marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services for the years ended
December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Marketing and promotion
1,914
2,430
2,562
Cardmember rewards
4,036
4,389
4,777
Cardmember services
517
542
478
Total marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
6,467
7,361
7,817
Marketing and promotion expense includes advertising costs, which are expensed in the year in which the advertising first takes place. Cardmember rewards expense includes the costs of rewards programs (including Membership Rewards,
discussed in Note 11). Cardmember services expense includes protection plans and complimentary services provided to cardmembers. 
The following
is a detail of other, net expense for the years ended December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Occupancy and equipment
1,619
1,641
1,436
Communications
414
466
461
MasterCard and Visa settlements
(852
(571
(1,056
Other
(a)
1,233
1,586
1,386
Total other, net expense
2,414
3,122
2,227
(a)
Includes (i) a $135 million benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2009 representing the correction of an error related to the accounting for cumulative
translation adjustments associated with a net investment in foreign subsidiaries (the impact of the incorrect accounting was not material to any of the quarterly or annual periods in which it occurred and resulted in a $60 million overstatement of
pretax income in the second quarter of 2009, a $135 million understatement of pretax income in the fourth quarter of 2008 and minimal amounts for all other periods affected dating back to the third quarter of 2007 when the incorrect accounting
originated), (ii) a $45 million benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2009 resulting from the change in fair value of certain forward exchange contracts, and (iii) lower travel and entertainment and other expenses due to the
Company’s reengineering activities. Also includes a $59 million benefit recorded in the second quarter of 2009 representing the correction of an error related to prior periods from the completion of certain account reconciliations. Based on the
items described above, the aggregate impact from the correction of errors in accounting for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 resulted in a $254 million overstatement of pretax income. 
Other, net expense includes general operating expenses, gains (losses) on sale of assets or businesses not classified as discontinued operations, and
litigation and insurance costs or settlements. 
NOTE 20 
STOCK PLANS 
STOCK OPTION AND AWARD PROGRAMS 
Under the 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and
previously under the 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plans), awards may be granted to employees and other key individuals who perform services for the Company and its participating subsidiaries. These awards may be in the form of stock
options, restricted stock awards or units (RSAs), portfolio grants (PGs), and similar awards designed to meet the requirements of non-U.S. jurisdictions. 
For the Company’s Plans, there were a total of 37 million, 45 million and 52 million common shares unissued and available for grant as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, as authorized by the Company’s Board of Directors and shareholders. 
The Company granted stock option awards
to its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in November 2007 and January 2008 that have performance-based and market-based conditions. These option awards are separately described below and are excluded from the information and tables presented in the
following paragraphs. 
A summary of stock option and RSA activity as of December 31, 2009, and changes during the year are
presented below: 
(Shares in thousands)
Stock Options
RSAs
Shares
Weighted
Average 
Exercise
Price
Shares
Weighted
Average
Grant 
Price
Outstanding at December 31, 2008
83,674
40.94
7,108
51.49
Granted
9,165
18.88
12,014
18.04
Exercised/vested
(2,757
36.71
(2,680
50.89
Forfeited
(2,060
40.58
(760
31.82
Expired
(8,328
35.19
Outstanding at December 31, 2009
(a)
79,694
39.18
15,682
26.90
Options vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2009
78,271
39.31
Options exercisable at December 31, 2009
(a)
59,778
39.81
(a)
As of December 31, 2009, the exercise prices for stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable ranged from $12.06 to $60.95 and $24.66 to $60.95,
respectively. 
The Company recognizes the cost of employee stock awards granted in exchange for employee services based on the
grant-date fair value of the award, net of expected forfeitures. Those costs are recognized ratably over the vesting period. 
111 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
STOCK OPTIONS 
Each stock option has an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant and a contractual term of 10 years from the date of grant. Stock options generally
vest 25 percent per year beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date. 
The weighted-average remaining
contractual life and the aggregate intrinsic value (the amount by which the fair value of the Company’s stock exceeds the exercise price of the option) of the stock options outstanding, exercisable, and vested and expected to vest as of
December 31, 2009 were as follows: 
Outstanding
Exercisable
Vested and
Expected to
Vest
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
4.1
2.8
4.1
Aggregate intrinsic value ($ millions)
399
199
379
The intrinsic value for options exercised during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $11 million, $79 million and $463 million, respectively (based upon the fair value of the Company’s stock price at the date of exercise). Cash received from the
exercise of stock options in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $83 million, $176 million and $852 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized from income tax deductions from stock option exercises, which was recorded in additional paid-in capital, in
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2 million, $21 million and $158 million, respectively. 
The fair value of each option is estimated on
the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The following weighted-average assumptions are used for grants issued in 2009, 2008 and 2007, the majority of which were granted in the beginning of each year: 
2009
2008
2007
Dividend yield
4.1
1.5
1.0
Expected volatility
36
19
19
Risk-free interest rate
2.1
2.8
4.8
Expected life of stock option 
(in years)
4.8
4.7
4.7
Weighted-average fair value per option
4.54
8.24
13.39
The expected volatility is based on weighted historical and implied volatilities of the Company’s common stock price. The expected life of the options is based on historical data. 
STOCK OPTIONS WITH PERFORMANCE-BASED AND MARKET-BASED CONDITIONS

On November 30, 2007 and January 31, 2008, the Company’s CEO was granted in the aggregate 2,750,000 of non-qualified stock
option awards with performance-based and market-based conditions. The exercise prices per share are $58.98 and $49.13, respectively. Both awards have a contractual term of 10 years and a vesting period of 6 years. 
Performance-based Conditions 
Awards for 2,062,500 options have performance-based conditions with an aggregate grant date fair value of approximately $33.8 million using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. Compensation expense for these awards will be
recognized over the vesting period when it is determined it is probable that the performance metrics will be achieved. No compensation expense for these awards was recorded in 2009, 2008 or 2007. 
Market-based Conditions 
Awards
for 687,500 options have market-based conditions with an aggregate grant date fair value of approximately $10.5 million using a Monte Carlo valuation model. The expected volatility is based on historical returns of the Company’s common stock
price and the S&P 500 Index. The expected life of the options is based on historical data. Compensation expense for the fair value of these awards is recognized ratably over the vesting period irrespective of the probability of the market metric
being achieved. Total compensation expense recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2.4 million, $2.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively. 
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS 
RSAs are valued based on the stock price on the date of grant and vest generally 25 percent per year,
beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date. RSA holders receive non-forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents. The total fair value of shares vested during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $44 million, $134 million and $203 million,
respectively (based upon the Company’s stock price at the vesting date). 
The weighted-average grant date fair value of
RSAs granted in 2009, 2008 and 2007, is $18.04, $48.29 and $57.89, respectively. 
PORTFOLIO GRANTS 
In 2009, the Company awarded cash-settled PGs to Executive Officers that earn value based on the Company’s financial performance and the Company’s
total shareholder return versus the S&P 500 Index. Awards in 2009 for all other PG recipients earn value based on the Company’s performance against financial and corporate objectives. The 2009 awards vest fifty percent each year over two
one-year performance periods. All PGs awarded in 2008 and 2007 earn value based on the Company’s financial performance and the Company’s

112 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 

total shareholder return versus the S&P 500 Index and cliff vest after a three-year performance period. PG payouts are subject to CBC approval. 
The PGs are classified as liabilities and, therefore, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and remeasured quarterly as part of
compensation expense over the performance period. Cash paid upon vesting of PGs was $43 million, $59 million and $55 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
SUMMARY OF STOCK PLAN EXPENSE 
The components of the Company’s stock-based
compensation expense (net of cancellations) are as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Restricted stock awards
(a)
135
141
135
Stock options
(a)
55
73
78
Portfolio grants and other
10
21
63
Performance/market-based stock options
2
2
Total stock based compensation expense
(b)
202
237
276
(a)
As of December 31, 2009, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSAs and options was $260 million and $74 million, respectively. The
unrecognized cost for RSAs and options will be recognized ratably over the remaining vesting period. The weighted-average remaining vesting period for RSAs and options is 2.44 years and 2.01 years, respectively. 
(b)
The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for stock-based compensation arrangements in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $71 million, $83 million and $96
million, respectively. 
NOTE 21 
RETIREMENT PLANS 
The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans, defined
contribution plans, and other postretirement benefit plans for its employees. The following table provides a summary of the total cost related to these plans as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Defined benefit pension plan cost
21
13
28
Defined contribution plan cost
118
211
173
Other postretirement benefit plan cost
29
27
31
Net periodic benefit cost
168
251
232
The expenses in the above table are recorded in salaries and employee benefits in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS 
The
Company’s significant defined benefit pension plans cover certain employees in the United States and United Kingdom. Most employees outside the United States and United Kingdom are covered by local retirement plans, some of which are funded,
while other employees receive payments at the time of retirement or termination under applicable labor laws or agreements. The Company complies with the minimum funding requirements in all countries. 
The Company sponsors the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan (the Plan) for eligible employees in the United States. The Plan is a
noncontributory defined benefit plan and a tax-qualified retirement plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). Effective July 1, 2007, the Plan was closed to new entrants and existing participants
no longer accrue future benefits. The Company funds retirement costs through a trust and complies with the applicable minimum funding requirements specified by ERISA, as revised under the Pension Protection Act (PPA), effective October 1, 2008.
The funded status of the Plan on an ERISA basis as of October 1, 2009 (applicable plan year) is 106 percent. The PPA calculation assumptions are specific to ERISA and differ from the calculation of the net funded status for GAAP purposes (see
Net Funded Status as of December 31, 2009 in the table below). 
The Plan is a cash balance plan and employees’
accrued benefits are based on notional account balances, which are maintained for each individual. Employees’ balances are credited daily with interest at a fixed-rate that is updated each January 1 and is based on the average of the daily
five-year U.S. Treasury Note yields for the previous October 1 through November 30. The interest rate varies from a minimum of 5 percent to a maximum equal to the lesser of (i) 10 percent or (ii) the applicable interest rate set
forth in the Plan. Employees and their beneficiaries have the option to receive annuity payments upon retirement or a lump-sum payout at vested termination, death, disability or retirement. 
The Company also sponsors an unfunded non-qualified Supplemental Retirement Plan (the SRP) for employees compensated above a certain level to
supplement their pension benefits that are limited by the Internal Revenue Code. The SRP was also amended as of July 1, 2007, and its terms generally parallel those of the Plan, except that the definition of compensation and payment options
differ. 
For each plan, the net funded status is defined by GAAP governing retirement benefits as the difference between the
fair value of plan assets and the respective plan’s projected benefit obligation. The projected benefit obligation represents a liability based on the plan participants’ service-to-date and their expected future compensation at their
projected retirement date. Changes in the funded status are recorded as unamortized gains and losses, which are recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the periods in which they occur along with prior service cost. 
113 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
As of December 31, 2009, the net funded status related to the defined benefit pension plans was
underfunded by $406 million, as shown in the following table: 
Net Funded Status 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Net funded status, beginning of year
(441
113
Increase (Decrease) in fair value of plan assets
296
(900
(Increase) Decrease in projected benefit obligation
(261
346
Net change
35
(554
Net funded status, end of year
(406
(441
The net funded status amounts at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other liabilities. 
Plan Assets and Obligations 
The following tables provide a reconciliation of
changes in the fair value of plan assets and projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit pension plans: 
Reconciliation of Change
in Fair Value of Plan Assets 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year
1,693
2,593
Effect of transition to December 31st measurement date
11
Actual return on plan assets
290
(461
Employer contributions
74
20
Benefits paid
(59
(61
Settlements
(81
(88
Foreign currency exchange rate changes
72
(321
Net change
296
(900
Fair value of plan assets, end of year
1,989
1,693
Reconciliation of Change in Projected Benefit Obligation 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Projected benefit obligation, beginning of year
2,134
2,480
Effect of transition to December 31st measurement date
6
Service cost
14
23
Interest cost
127
136
Benefits paid
(59
(61
Actuarial loss (gain)
189
(56
Plan amendments
(4
Settlements
(81
(88
Curtailments
(14
(5
Foreign currency exchange rate changes
85
(297
Net change
261
(346
Projected benefit obligation, end of year
2,395
2,134
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
The following table provides the amounts comprising accumulated other comprehensive loss, which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic pension benefit cost as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Net actuarial loss
655
650
Net prior service cost
(3
(3
Total, pretax effect
652
647
Tax impact
(219
(215
Total, net of taxes
433
432
The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss and net prior service cost that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic pension benefit cost in 2010 is $22 million and nil, respectively. 
The following table lists the amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss in 2009: 
(Millions)
2009
Net actuarial loss:
Reclassified to earnings from equity
(a)
(29
Losses in current year
(b)
34
Net actuarial loss, pretax
5
(a)
Amortization of actuarial losses and recognition of losses related to lump sum settlements. 
(b)
Deferral of actuarial losses and curtailment gains. 
Benefit Obligations 
The accumulated benefit obligation in a defined benefit pension plan is the present value of
benefits earned to date by plan participants computed based on current compensation levels as contrasted to the projected benefit obligation, which is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants based on their expected future
compensation at their projected retirement date. 
The accumulated and projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit pension plans are
as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Accumulated benefit obligation
2,327
2,057
Projected benefit obligation
2,395
2,134
The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligation that exceeds the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Accumulated benefit obligation
1,369
2,056
Fair value of plan assets
1,020
1,691
114 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with projected benefit
obligation that exceeds the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Projected benefit obligation
2,395
2,134
Fair value of plan assets
1,989
1,693
Net Periodic Pension Benefit Cost 
The components of the net periodic pension benefit cost for all defined benefit
pension plans as of December 31 are as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Service cost
(a)
14
23
89
Interest cost
(b)
127
136
126
Expected return on plan assets
(c)
(146
(169
(155
Amortization of prior service costs
(d)
1
Recognized net actuarial loss
(e)
10
17
35
Settlements losses (gains)
(f)
19
5
(5
Curtailment (gains) losses
(g)
(3
1
(63
Net periodic pension benefit cost
21
13
28
(a)
Current value of benefits earned by employees during the period. 
(b)
Estimated interest incurred on the outstanding projected benefit obligation during the period. 
(c)
Expected return on the market related value of plan assets. 
(d)
Costs that result from plan amendments, which are amortized over the expected future service period of the employees impacted. 
(e)
Amortization of the accumulated losses which exceed 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets.

(f)
Recognition of the actuarial losses resulting from lump sum settlements of the benefit obligation. 
(g)
Gains resulting from a reduction in the benefit obligation due to a decrease in the expected years of future service of current plan participants.

Assumptions 
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension obligations were: 
2009
2008
Discount rates
5.3
5.9
Rates of increase in compensation levels
3.6
3.9
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension benefit costs were: 
2009
2008
2007
Discount rates
5.9
5.8
5.2
Rates of increase in compensation levels
3.9
4.2
4.1
Expected long-term rates of return on assets
6.9
7.6
7.8
The Company assumes a long-term rate of return on assets on a weighted-average basis. In developing this assumption, management evaluates historical returns on plan assets as well as benchmark information including projections of asset
class returns and long-term inflation. 
The discount rate assumptions for the Company’s significant defined benefit plans
are determined using a model consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the plan’s projected benefit payments based on the plan participants’ service to date and their expected future compensation. Use of the rate produced
by this model generates a projected benefit obligation that equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing and amount of expected future benefit payments.

Asset Allocation and Fair Value 
The Benefit Plans Investment Committee (BPIC) is appointed by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors and has the responsibility of reviewing and approving the
investment policies related to plan assets for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans; evaluating the performance of the investments in accordance with the investment policy; reviewing the investment objectives, risk, characteristics,
expenses and historical performance; and selecting and evaluating the investment managers. The BPIC typically meets quarterly to review the performance of the various investment managers and service providers as well as other investment related
matters. The Company’s significant defined benefit pension plans have investment policies, which prescribe targets for the amount of assets that can be invested in a security class in order to mitigate the detrimental impact of adverse or
unexpected results with respect to any individual security class on the overall portfolio. The portfolios are diversified by asset type, risk characteristics and concentration of investments. 
Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted new GAAP fair value disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension plan assets (the
new expanded disclosures are not applicable for plan assets at December 31, 2008 when the asset allocation was 48 percent equity securities, 43 percent fixed income securities, and 9 percent other investments). Refer to Note 3 for a discussion
related to valuation techniques used to measure fair value, including a description of the three-level fair value hierarchy of inputs. 
115 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The following table summarizes the target allocation and categorization of all defined benefit pension
plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis by GAAP’s valuation hierarchy as of December 31, 2009. 
Asset Category
(millions, except percentages)
Target
Allocation 2010
Total
Quoted Prices in
Active Markets
for Identical
Assets
(Level 1)
Significant
Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)
Significant
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
U.S. equity securities
15
334
334
International equity securities
(a)
30
626
626
U.S. fixed income securities
30
553
553
International fixed income securities
(a)
15
301
301
Balanced funds
5
62
62
Cash
15
15
Other
(b)
Private equity
52
52
Real estate
38
38
Hedge funds
8
8
Total other
5
98
98
Total
100
1,989
975
916
98
(a)
A significant portion of international investments are in U.K. companies and U.K. government and agency securities. 
(b)
Measured at reported net asset value in accordance with GAAP adopted in 2009. 
The fair value measurement of all defined benefit pension plan assets using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) changed during 2009 due to the following: 
(Millions)
Total
Private Equity
Real Estate
Hedge Funds
Beginning fair value, January 1, 2009
187
$64
$60
$63
Actual net losses on plan assets:
Held at the end of the year
(38
(16)
(19)
(3)
Sold during the year
(10
(1)
(9)
Total net losses
(48
(16)
(20)
(12)
Net purchases, sales and settlements
(41
4
(2)
(43)
Net decrease
(89
(12)
(22)
(55)
Ending fair value, December 31, 2009
98
$52
$38
$8
116 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Benefit Payments 
The Company’s defined benefit pension plans expect to make benefit payments to retirees as follows: 
(Millions)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
–2019
Expected payments
132
147
152
152
171
903
In addition, the Company expects to contribute $64 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010. 
DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS 
The Company sponsors defined contribution retirement plans, the principal plan being the Retirement Savings Plan
(RSP), a 401(k) savings plan with a profit sharing component. The RSP is a tax-qualified retirement plan subject to ERISA and covers most employees in the U. S. Under the terms of the RSP, employees have the option of investing up to 10 percent of
their contributions in the American Express Company Stock Fund, which invests primarily in the Company’s common stock, through accumulated payroll deductions. Employees are restricted from transferring balances into this fund if the balance has
reached 10 percent of the employee’s total account balance. The RSP held 13 million shares of American Express Common Stock at both December 31, 2009 and 2008, beneficially for employees. Effective July 1, 2007, the Company
matches employee contributions to the plan up to a maximum of 5 percent of total pay. Additional annual conversion contributions of up to 8 percent of total pay are provided into the RSP for eligible employees who were hired before April 1,
2007. The Company also sponsors an RSP SRP, which is an unfunded non-qualified plan for employees whose RSP benefits are limited by the Internal Revenue Code and its terms generally parallel those of the RSP, except that the definition of
compensation and payment options differ. 
The total expense for all defined contribution retirement plans globally was $118
million, $211 million and $173 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in defined contribution expense in 2009 primarily reflects the Company’s temporary suspension of the employer match conversion contributions (reinstated
prospectively in January 2010). 
OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS 
The Company sponsors unfunded other postretirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance to certain retired U.S. employees. 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
The following table provides the amounts comprising accumulated other comprehensive loss which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic benefit
cost as of December 31: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Net actuarial loss
60
47
Net prior service cost
(2
Total, pretax effect
60
45
Tax impact
(24
(18
Total, net of taxes
36
27
The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss above that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost in 2010 is $2 million. 
The following table lists the amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss in 2009: 
(Millions)
2009
Net actuarial loss:
Reclassified to earnings from equity
(2
Losses in current year
15
Net actuarial loss
13
Net prior service cost:
Reclassified to earnings from equity
2
Net prior service cost
2
Total, pretax
15
Benefit Obligations 
The projected benefit obligation represents a liability based upon estimated future medical and
other benefits to be provided to retirees. 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the projected benefit obligation:

Reconciliation of Change in Projected Benefit Obligation 
(Millions)
2009
2008
Projected benefit obligation, beginning of year
295
312
Effect of transition to December 31st measurement date
1
Service cost
5
6
Interest cost
18
19
Benefits paid
(16
(27
Actuarial loss (gain)
16
(16
Curtailment loss
6
Net change
29
(17
Projected benefit obligation, end of year
324
295
The plans are unfunded and the obligations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other liabilities. 
117 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Net Periodic Benefit Cost 
GAAP provides for the delayed recognition of the net actuarial loss and the net prior service credit remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 
The components of the net periodic benefit cost for all other postretirement benefit plans as of December 31 are as follows: 
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Service cost
5
6
6
Interest cost
18
19
19
Amortization of prior service cost
(2
(2
(2
Recognized net actuarial loss
2
4
8
Curtailment loss
6
Net periodic benefit cost
29
27
31
ASSUMPTIONS 
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations were: 
2009
2008
Discount rates
5.4
6.0
Health care cost increase rate:
Following year
8.0
8.5
Decreasing to the year 2016
5.0
5.0
The weighted-average discount rate used to determine net periodic benefit cost was 6.0 percent, 6.1 percent and 5.7 percent in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
The discount rate assumption for the Company’s unfunded other postretirement benefit plans is determined by using a model consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the plan’s
projected benefit payments. Use of the rate produced by this model generates a projected benefit obligation that equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing and
amount of expected future benefit payments. 
A one percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
effects: 
One
percentage-
point increase
One
percentage-
point decrease
(Millions)
2009
2008
2009
2008
Increase (Decrease) on benefits earned and interest cost for U.S. plans
1
1
(1
(1
Increase (Decrease) on postretirement benefit obligation for U.S. plans
15
15
(14
(13
Benefit Payments 
The
Company’s other postretirement benefit plans expect to make benefit payments as follows: 
(Millions)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
–2019
Expected payments
24
24
24
25
26
132
In addition, the Company expects to contribute $24 million to its other postretirement benefit plans in 2010. 
NOTE 22 
SIGNIFICANT CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS 
Concentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure is material in relation to American
Express’ total credit exposure. The Company’s customers operate in diverse industries, economic sectors and geographic regions. 
The
following table details the Company’s maximum credit exposure by category, including the credit exposure associated with derivative financial instruments, as of December 31: 
(Billions, except percentages)
2009
2008
On-balance sheet:
Individuals
(a)
60
68
Financial institutions
(b)
20
24
U.S. Government and agencies
(c)
19
11
All other
(d)
17
14
Total on-balance sheet
(e)
116
117
Unused lines-of-credit-individuals
(f) 
222
253
(a)
Individuals primarily include cardmember loans and receivables. 
(b)
Financial institutions primarily include debt obligations of banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and savings and loan associations. 
(c)
U.S. Government and agencies represent debt obligations of the U.S. Government and its agencies, states and municipalities, and government sponsored entities.

(d)
All other primarily includes cardmember receivables from other corporate institutions. 
(e)
Certain distinctions between categories require management judgment. 
(f)
Because charge card products have no preset spending limit, the associated credit limit on cardmember receivables is not quantifiable. Therefore, the quantified unused
line-of-credit amounts only include the approximate credit line available on cardmember loans (including both for on-balance sheet loans and loans previously securitized). 
118 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s most significant concentration of credit risk was with individuals, including cardmember
receivables and loans. These amounts are generally advanced on an unsecured basis. However, the Company reviews each potential customer’s credit application and evaluates the applicant’s financial history and ability and willingness to
repay. The Company also considers credit performance by customer tenure, industry, and geographic location in managing credit exposure. The following table details the Company’s cardmember loans and receivables exposure (including unused
lines-of-credit on cardmember loans) in the United States and International, as of December 31: 
(Billions, except percentages)
2009
2008
On-balance sheet:
United States
47
56
International
20
19
On-balance sheet
(a)
67
75
Unused lines-of-credit-individuals:
United States
181
211
International
41
42
Total
222
253
(a)
Represents cardmember loans to individuals as well as receivables from individuals and corporate institutions as discussed in footnotes (a) and (d) from the
previous table. 
EXPOSURE TO AIRLINE INDUSTRY 
The Company has multiple co-brand relationships and rewards partners, of which airlines are one of the most important and valuable. The Company’s largest airline co-brand is Delta Air Lines (Delta)
and this relationship includes exclusive co-brand credit card partnerships and other arrangements, including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and travel. American Express’ Delta SkyMiles Credit Card co-brand portfolio accounts for
approximately 5 percent of the Company’s worldwide billed business and less than 15 percent of worldwide cardmember lending receivables. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of prepaid miles acquired
from Delta. 
Over the last couple of years, there were a significant number of airline bankruptcies and liquidations, driven in
part by volatile fuel costs and weakening economies around the world. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant revenue declines when a particular airline scales back or ceases operations due to a bankruptcy or other financial
challenges because volumes generated by that airline are typically shifted to other participants in the industry that accept the Company’s card products. The Company’s exposure to business and credit risk in the airline industry is
primarily through business arrangements where the Company has remitted payment to the airline for a cardmember purchase of tickets that have not yet been used or “flown”. The Company mitigates this risk by delaying payment to the airlines
with deteriorating financial situations, thereby increasing cash withheld to protect the Company in the event the airline is liquidated. To date, the Company has not experienced significant losses from airlines that have ceased operations.

NOTE 23 
REGULATORY MATTERS AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY 
The Company is regulated by the Federal Reserve and is subject to the Federal
Reserve’s requirements for risk-based capital and leverage ratios. The Company’s two U.S. Bank operating subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and FSB (collectively, the “Banks”), are subject to similar regulatory capital requirements of
the FDIC and the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). 
The Federal Reserve’s guidelines for capital adequacy define two
categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital (as defined in the regulations). Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve, the Company is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2)
capital to risk weighted assets, as well as a minimum leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to average adjusted on-balance sheet assets). 
Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional, discretionary actions by regulators, that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company’s and the Banks’
financial statements. 
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company and its Banks were well-capitalized and met all
capital requirements to which each was subject. Management is not aware of any events subsequent to December 31, 2009 that would materially, adversely affect the Company’s and the Banks’ 2009 capital ratios, including the impact of
the adoption of changes in GAAP governing the accounting for transfers of financial assets effective January 1, 2010, as discussed in Note 1. While the adoption of these new accounting standards is expected to result in a reduction of the
Company’s capital ratios, such ratios are expected to be above applicable well-capitalized levels. 
119 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The following table presents the regulatory capital ratios for the Company and the Banks at December 31, 2009 and 2008: 
(Millions, except percentages)
Tier 1 
capital
Total 
capital
Tier 1 
capital
ratio
Total 
capital
ratio
Tier 1
leverage
ratio
(a)
December 31, 2009
American Express Company
11,464
13,894
9.8
11.9
9.7
American Express Centurion Bank
(b)
4,430
4,841
13.7
15.0
17.1
American Express Bank, FSB
(b)
4,784
5,623
14.2
16.7
15.1
(a)
December 31, 2008
American Express Company
10,087
11,610
9.7
11.1
8.5
American Express Centurion Bank
3,029
3,386
12.3
13.7
13.2
American Express Bank, FSB
3,415
3,767
12.7
14.0
12.2
(a)
Well-capitalized ratios
(c)
6.0
10.0
5.0
(d)
Minimum capital ratios
(c)
4.0
8.0
4.0
(a)
FSB leverage ratio represents Tier 1 core capital ratio, calculated similarly to Tier 1 leverage ratio. 
(b)
Since January 2009, FSB has committed to maintain a Total capital ratio of no less than 15 percent. During 2009, enhancements were made to the American Express Credit
Account Master Trust used to securitize credit card receivables issued by both the FSB and Centurion Bank. As a result of these enhancements, the Banks began holding capital against their off balance sheet trust assets. The Company infused $1.4
billion and $475 million of additional capital into FSB and Centurion Bank, respectively, during 2009 and in connection with the foregoing increased capital commitment for FSB and the impact of the trust enhancements for both FSB and Centurion Bank.

(c)
As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), OTS and FDIC. 
(d)
Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries to be considered “well capitalized” pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act. There is no “well capitalized” definition for the Tier 1 leverage ratio for a bank holding company. 
RESTRICTED NET ASSETS OF SUBSIDIARIES 
Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the transfer of net assets under debt agreements and regulatory requirements. These restrictions have not had any effect on the Company’s shareholder dividend
policy and management does not anticipate any impact in the future. Procedures exist to transfer net assets between the Company and its subsidiaries, while ensuring compliance with the various contractual and regulatory constraints. At
December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of net assets of subsidiaries that are restricted to be transferred to American Express’ Parent Company (Parent Company) was approximately $9.5 billion. 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS 
The Company is limited in its ability to pay dividends by its regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies
should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of net income attributable to common shareholders over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s current and expected future capital
needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine a company’s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. 
BANKS’ DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS 
In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Centurion Bank paid dividends from retained earnings to its parent of $650 million and $700 million, respectively, which were eliminated in the Company’s consolidation. No dividends
were paid in 2009. In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, FSB paid dividends from retained earnings to its parent of $150 million and $150 million, respectively, which were eliminated in the Company’s consolidation. No dividends
were paid in 2009. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Banks could pay, in the aggregate, $1.3 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively, in dividends to their bank holding companies without the prior approval of their respective banking
regulators. In determining the dividends, the Banks must also consider its effect on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements, as well as policy statements of the federal regulatory agencies. 
120 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 24 
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and arbitration proceedings,
including class actions, concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of their respective business activities. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to each of these actions and intends to defend them vigorously. In the
course of its business, the Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to governmental examinations, information gathering requests, subpoenas, inquiries, and investigations. The Company believes it is not a party to, nor are any of its
properties the subject of, any pending legal, arbitration, regulatory, tax or investigative proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, it is possible that the
outcome of any such proceedings could have a material impact on results of operations in any particular reporting period as the proceedings are resolved. 
VISA AND MASTERCARD SETTLEMENTS 
As previously disclosed the Company reached
settlement agreements with Visa and MasterCard. Under the terms of the settlement agreements, the Company will receive aggregate maximum payments of $4.05 billion. The settlement with Visa comprised an initial payment of $1.13 billion ($700 million
after-tax) that was recorded as a gain in 2007. Having met quarterly performance criteria, the Company recognized $280 million ($172 million after-tax) from Visa in 2009 and 2008, and $600 million ($372 million after-tax) and $300 million ($186
million after-tax) from MasterCard in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The remaining Visa and MasterCard quarterly payments, subject to the Company achieving certain quarterly performance criteria, continue through the fourth and second quarters of
2011, respectively, and are included in other, net expenses within the Corporate & Other segment. 
The Company also
has contingent obligations to make payments under contractual agreements entered into as part of the ongoing operation of the Company’s business, primarily with co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such arrangements were
approximately $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2009. 
The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under
noncancelable and cancelable agreements. The total rental expense amounted to $362 million in 2009 including lease termination penalties of $36 million. Rent expense was $337 million and $300 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of
December 31, 2009, the minimum aggregate rental commitment under all noncancelable operating leases (net of subleases of $5 million) was: 
(Millions)
2010
254
2011
228
2012
194
2013
181
2014
164
Thereafter
1,316
Total
2,337
As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s future minimum lease payments under capital leases or other similar arrangements is approximately $12 million per annum from 2010 through 2013, $14 million in 2014 and $40 million thereafter.
Refer to Note 22 for a discussion of the Company’s customer commitments, related to unused lines-of-credit, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
121 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 25 
REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS 
REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS 
The Company is a leading global payments and travel company that is principally engaged in
businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services (USCS), International Card Services (ICS), Global Commercial Services (GCS) and Global Network & Merchant Services (GNMS). 
The Company considers a combination of factors when evaluating the composition of its reportable operating segments, including the results
reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes of customers, product distribution channels, geographic considerations (primarily U.S. versus international), and regulatory environment
considerations. Based on these factors, the Company has the following four reportable operating segments: 
USCS issues a wide range of card products and services to consumers and small businesses in the United States, and provides consumer travel services to
cardmembers and other consumers. 
ICS issues proprietary consumer and small business cards outside the United States. 
GCS offers global corporate payment and travel-related products and services to large and mid-sized companies. 
GNMS segment operates a global general-purpose charge and credit card network, which includes both proprietary cards and cards issued under network
partnership agreements. It also manages merchant services globally, which includes signing merchants to accept cards as well as processing and settling card transactions for those merchants. This segment also offers merchants point-of-sale products,
servicing and settlements and marketing programs. 
Corporate functions and auxiliary businesses, including the Company’s
publishing business, the Global Prepaid business, as well as other company operations are included in Corporate & Other. 
122 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
The following table presents certain selected financial information as of December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007 and for each of the years then ended. 
(Millions, except where indicated)
USCS
ICS
GCS
GNMS
Corporate &
Other
(a)
Consolidated
2009
(b)
Non-interest revenues
9,525
3,404
4,157
3,625
688
21,399
Interest income
3,221
1,588
61
6
455
5,331
Interest expense
855
509
172
(85
756
2,207
Total revenues net of interest expense
11,891
4,483
4,046
3,716
387
24,523
Total provision
3,769
1,211
177
135
21
5,313
Pretax income from continuing operations
324
230
568
1,381
338
2,841
Income tax provision (benefit)
75
(73
178
483
41
704
Income from continuing operations
249
303
390
898
297
2,137
Total equity 
(billions)
6.5
2.2
3.4
1.8
0.5
14.4
2008
Non-interest revenues
11,427
3,758
5,081
3,875
578
24,719
Interest income
4,736
1,984
168
5
308
7,201
Interest expense
2,166
961
553
(222
97
3,555
Total revenues net of interest expense
13,997
4,781
4,696
4,102
789
28,365
Total provision
4,389
1,030
231
127
21
5,798
Pretax income from continuing operations
1,141
153
693
1,490
104
3,581
Income tax provision (benefit)
289
(198
188
495
(64
710
Income from continuing operations
852
351
505
995
168
2,871
Total equity 
(billions)
4.8
2.0
3.5
1.4
0.1
11.8
2007
Non-interest revenues
11,750
3,499
4,697
3,549
621
24,116
Interest income
5,125
1,741
187
3
368
7,424
Interest expense
2,653
909
615
(312
116
3,981
Total revenues net of interest expense
14,222
4,331
4,269
3,864
873
27,559
Total provision
2,998
812
163
103
27
4,103
Pretax income from continuing operations
2,730
117
744
1,560
543
5,694
Income tax provision (benefit)
907
(174
208
538
89
1,568
Income from continuing operations
1,823
291
536
1,022
454
4,126
Total equity 
(billions)
4.5
2.1
2.2
1.2
1.0
11.0
(a)
Corporate & Other includes adjustments and eliminations for intersegment activity. 
(b)
The Company changed the manner by which it assesses the performance of its reportable operating segments to exclude the impact of its excess liquidity funding levels.
Accordingly, beginning in 2009, the debt and cash and investment balances associated with the Company’s excess liquidity funding and the related net negative interest spread are no longer included within the reportable operating segment results
(primarily USCS and GCS segments) and are reported in the Corporate & Other segment. The segment results for the prior years have not been revised for this change. The impact on segment income from continuing operations was an increase to
USCS, ICS, and GCS of $101 million, $1 million and $41 million, respectively, and a decrease to Corporate & Other of $143 million for the year ending December 31, 2009. The impact on reportable operating segment asset and liability
balances for this change was a decrease to USCS and GCS of $19 billion and $7 billion, respectively, and an increase to Corporate & Other of $26 billion as of December 31, 2009. 
123 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense 
The Company allocates discount revenue and certain other revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology. Segments earn discount revenue based on the volume of merchant business generated by
cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS and GCS segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the overall discount rate; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue reflects the network and merchant component of the overall discount rate.
Total interest income and net card fees are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. 
Provisions for
Losses 
The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. 
Expenses 
Marketing, promotion,
rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of brand advertising, which is reflected in the GNMS segment. Rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each
segment based on actual expenses incurred within each segment. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses reflect expenses, such as professional services, occupancy and equipment, and communications, incurred directly within each
segment. In addition, expenses related to the Company’s support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to each segment based on support service activities directly attributable to the segment. Other overhead expenses, such as staff
group support functions, are allocated from Corporate & Other to the other segments based on each segment’s relative level of pretax income, with the exception of certain fourth quarter 2008 severance and other related charges of $133
million from the Company’s fourth quarter restructuring initiatives for staff group support functions. This presentation is consistent with how such charges were reported internally. See further discussion in Note 16 regarding this corporate
initiative. Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis. Funding costs are allocated based on segment funding requirements. 
Capital 
Each business segment is allocated capital based on established business model operating requirements, risk
measures, and regulatory capital requirements. Business model operating requirements include capital needed to support operations and specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include considerations for credit, market, and operational risk.

Income Taxes 
Income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to each business segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to various businesses that make up the segment. 
GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS 
The following table presents the Company’s total revenues net of interest expense and pretax income in different geographic regions: 
(Millions)
United States
Europe
Asia/Pacific
All Other
Consolidated
2009
Total revenues net of interest expense
16,582
3,151
2,335
2,455
24,523
Pretax income from continuing operations
2,034
300
200
307
2,841
2008
Total revenues net of interest expense
19,365
3,755
2,544
2,701
28,365
Pretax income from continuing operations
3,110
196
99
176
3,581
2007
Total revenues net of interest expense
19,456
3,515
2,231
2,357
27,559
Pretax income from continuing operations
4,984
301
124
285
5,694
The data in the above table is, in part, based upon internal allocations, which necessarily involve management’s judgment. 
124 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 26 
PARENT COMPANY 
Parent Company – Condensed Statements of
Income 
Years Ended December 31
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Revenues
Non-interest revenues
Gain on sale of securities
211
Other
4
6
13
Total non-interest revenues
215
6
13
Interest income
142
286
258
Interest expense
(562
(462
(360
Total revenues net of interest expense
(205
(170
(89
Expenses
Salaries and employee benefits
111
129
132
Other
161
119
160
Total
272
248
292
Pretax loss
(477 
(418 
(381
Income tax benefit
(164 
(176 
(157
Net loss before equity in net income of subsidiaries and affiliates
(313 
(242 
(224
Equity in net income of subsidiaries and affiliates
2,450
3,113
4,350
Income from continuing operations
2,137
2,871
4,126
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
(7 
(172 
(114
Net income
2,130
2,699
4,012
Parent Company – Condensed Balance Sheets 
As of December 31
(Millions)
2009
2008
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
5,679
3
Investment securities
530
594
Equity in net assets of subsidiaries and affiliates of continuing operations
14,677
12,563
Accounts receivable, less reserves
523
1,153
Loan to affiliate in discontinued operations
238
Premises and equipment — at cost, less accumulated depreciation: 2009, $34; 2008, $33
52
46
Due from subsidiaries
4,197
5,928
Other assets
389
716
Equity in net liabilities of subsidiaries and affiliates of discontinued operations
(44 
Total assets
26,047
21,197
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Accounts payable and other liabilities
1,398
1,424
Long-term debt
10,243
7,932
Total liabilities
11,641
9,356
Shareholders’ equity
Common shares
237
232
Additional paid-in capital
11,144
10,496
Retained earnings
3,737
2,719
Accumulated other comprehensive loss
(712 
(1,606
Total shareholders’ equity
14,406
11,841
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
26,047
21,197
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE 
The Parent Company guarantees up to $104 million of indebtedness under lines of credit that
subsidiaries have with various banks. As of December 31, 2009, $17 million in lines of credit have been drawn down. 
125 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
Parent Company – Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 
Years Ended December 31
(Millions)
2009
2008
2007
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net income
2,130
2,699
4,012
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities:
Equity in net (income) loss of subsidiaries and affiliates:
— Continuing operations
(2,450
(3,113
(4,350
— Discontinued operations
7
172
114
Dividends received from subsidiaries and affiliates
1,103
2,340
3,708
Gain on sale of investments
(211
Loan to affiliate in discontinued operations
(238
Other operating activities, primarily with subsidiaries
2,911
(1,915
(242
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
3,490
(55
3,242
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Sale/redemption of investments
361
Premises and equipment
(20
(14
(10
Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates
(58
(550
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
341
(72
(560
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Issuance of debt
3,000
3,000
1,500
Issuance of American Express Series A preferred shares and warrants
3,389
Repurchase of American Express Series A preferred shares
(3,389
Principal payment of debt
(505
(1,995
(750
Issuance of American Express common shares and other
614
176
852
Repurchase of American Express common shares
(218
(3,572
Repurchase of American Express stock warrants
(340
Dividends paid
(924
(836
(712
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
1,845
127
(2,682
Net change in cash and cash equivalents
5,676
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
3
3
3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
5,679
3
3
126 
Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
NOTE 27 
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 
(Millions, except per share amounts)
2009
2008
Quarters Ended
12/31
9/30
(b)
6/30
(b)
(c)
3/31
12/31
(c)
9/30
6/30
(a)
3/31
(a)
Total revenues net of interest expense
6,489
6,016
6,092
5,926
6,506
7,164
7,455
7,240
Pretax income from continuing operations
961
918
418
544
268
1,078
774
1,461
Income from continuing operations
710
642
342
443
306
861
660
1,044
Income (Loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax
6
(2
(5
(6
(66
(46
(7
(53
Net income
(b)
716
640
337
437
240
815
653
991
Earnings Per Common Share — Basic:
Continuing operations
0.59
0.54
0.09
0.32
0.26
0.74
0.57
0.90
Discontinued operations
0.01
(0.01
(0.05
(0.04
(0.01
(0.05
Net income
0.60
0.54
0.09
0.31
0.21
0.70
0.56
0.85
Earnings Per Common Share — Diluted:
Continuing operations
0.59
0.54
0.09
0.32
0.26
0.74
0.56
0.89
Discontinued operations
0.01
(0.01
(0.01
(0.05
(0.04
(0.04
Net income
0.60
0.53
0.09
0.31
0.21
0.70
0.56
0.85
Cash dividends declared per common share
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.18
0.18
Common share price:
High
42.25
36.50
28.45
21.38
35.80
42.50
52.63
52.32
Low
31.69
22.00
13.08
9.71
16.55
31.68
37.61
39.50
(a)
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations was greater than basic EPS from discontinued operations due to the impact of rounded fractional amounts.

(b)
The results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 include a $180 million benefit related to (i) the accounting for a net investment in foreign subsidiaries
and (ii) the change in the fair value of certain forward exchange contracts. The results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 include a $59 million benefit related to the completion of certain account reconciliations. Refer to
Note 19 for further discussion of these items. 
(c)
The results of operations for the quarters ended June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 include restructuring charges in the amount of $199 million and $410
million, respectively. Refer to Note 16 for further discussion of these items. 
127 
Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 
(Millions, except per share amounts, percentages, and where
indicated)
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
Operating Results
(a)
Total revenues net of interest expense
24,523
28,365
27,559
24,826
22,145
Expenses
16,369
18,986
17,762
17,008
15,605
Provisions for losses
5,313
5,798
4,103
2,666
2,561
Income from continuing operations
2,137
2,871
4,126
3,625
3,014
(Loss) Income from discontinued operations
(7
(172
(114
82
720
Net income
2,130
2,699
4,012
3,707
3,734
Return on average equity
(b)
14.6
22.3
37.3
34.7
25.4
Balance Sheet
(a)
Cash and cash equivalents
15,542
20,547
8,878
3,801
4,272
Accounts receivable, net
38,204
36,571
41,994
38,642
35,293
Loans, net
30,010
40,659
53,339
43,034
33,824
Investment securities
24,337
12,526
13,214
13,207
13,102
Assets of discontinued operations
216
22,278
20,699
19,866
Total assets
124,088
126,074
149,743
128,262
114,571
Customer deposits
26,289
15,486
15,397
12,011
13,827
Travelers Cheques outstanding
5,975
6,433
7,197
7,215
7,175
Short-term borrowings
2,344
8,993
17,761
15,236
15,711
Long-term debt
52,338
60,041
55,285
42,747
30,781
Liabilities of discontinued operations
260
21,527
20,003
19,077
Shareholders’ equity
14,406
11,841
11,029
10,511
10,549
Common Share Statistics
Earnings per share
(c)
Income from continuing operations:
Basic
1.55
2.47
3.49
2.97
2.42
Diluted
1.54
2.47
3.44
2.91
2.38
(Loss) Income from discontinued operations:
Basic
(0.01
(0.14
(0.09
0.07
0.58
Diluted
(0.15
(0.10
0.07
0.57
Net income:
Basic
1.54
2.33
3.40
3.04
3.00
Diluted
1.54
2.32
3.34
2.98
2.95
Cash dividends declared per share
0.72
0.72
0.63
0.57
0.48
Book value per share
12.08
10.21
9.53
8.76
8.50
Market price per share
(d)
High
42.25
52.63
65.89
62.50
59.50
Low
9.71
16.55
50.37
49.73
47.01
Close
40.52
18.55
52.02
60.67
51.46
Average common shares outstanding for earnings per share:
Basic
1,168
1,154
1,173
1,212
1,233
Diluted
1,171
1,156
1,193
1,235
1,253
Shares outstanding at period end
1,192
1,160
1,158
1,199
1,241
Other Statistics
Number of employees at period end 
(thousands)
United States
28
31
32
32
29
Outside United States
30
35
36
33
37
Total
(e)
58
66
68
65
66
Number of shareholders of record
41,273
43,257
50,216
51,644
55,409
(a)
In 2007, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its international banking subsidiary, AEB, and its subsidiary that issues investment certificates to AEB’s
customers, AEIDC, to Standard Chartered subject to certain regulatory approvals. The results, assets, and liabilities of AEB (except for certain components of the business which were not sold) are presented as discontinued operations. Additionally,
the spin-off of Ameriprise and certain dispositions were completed in 2006 and 2005, and the results of these operations are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 2 for additional information on discontinued operations.

(b)
Return on average equity is calculated by dividing one year period of net income by one year average of total shareholders’ equity. 
(c)
Effective January 1, 2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities requires that
restricted stock awards be included in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS for all prior periods presented. Refer to Note 18 to the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(d)
The market price per share beginning with the fourth quarter of 2005 reflects the spin-off of Ameriprise as of September 30, 2005. The opening share price on the
first trading day after the spin-off was $50.75. 
(e)
Amounts include employees from discontinued operations. 
128 
EX-21

4

dex21.htm

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Exhibit 21 
SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 
Unless otherwise
indicated, all of the voting securities of these subsidiaries are directly or indirectly owned by the registrant. Where the name of the subsidiary is indented, the voting securities of such subsidiary are owned directly by the company under which
its name is indented. 
Name
Country Name
American Express Company
(USA) New York
56th Street AXP Campus LLC
(USA) Arizona
American Express Austria Bank GmbH
Austria
American Express Bank LLC
Russian Federation
American Express Bank Ltd. S.A.
Argentina
American Express Banking Corp.
(USA) New York
American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
(USA) New York
American Express Bank (Mexico) S.A Institucion de Banca Multiple
Mexico
American Express Bank Services, S.A. de C.V.
Mexico
American Express Bank FSB
United States 
American Express Receivables Financing Corporation IV LLC
(USA) Delaware
American Express Business Loan Corporation
(USA) Utah
American Express Centurion Bank
(USA) Utah
American Express Receivables Financing Corporation III LLC
(USA) Delaware
American Express Company (Mexico) S.A. de C.V.
Mexico
American Express Insurance Services, Agente de Seguros, S.A. de C.V.
Mexico
American Express Servicios Profesionales, S.A. de C.V.
Mexico
American Express Credit Corporation
(USA) Delaware 
American Express Capital Australia
Australia
American Express Credit Mexico, LLC
(USA) Delaware 
Fideicomiso Empresarial American Express No.232033
Mexico
American Express Euro Funding Limited Partnership
United Kingdom
American Express Overseas Credit Corporation Limited
Jersey
AEOCC Management Company Limited
Jersey
American Express Overseas Credit Corporation N.V.
Netherlands Antilles
AE Hungary Holdings Limited Liability Company
Hungary
American Express Canada Credit Corporation
Canada
American Express Canada Finance Limited
Canada
American Express Sterling Funding Limited Partnership
United Kingdom
American Express Funding (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l
Luxembourg
Credco Receivables Corp.
(USA) Delaware 
1 
Name
Country Name
American Express Dutch Capital, LLC
(USA) Delaware 
American Express Europe Limited
(USA) Delaware 
Sceptre Nominees Limited
United Kingdom
American Express Global Financial Services, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
American Express Holdings Netherlands CV
Netherlands
American Express Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.
Puerto Rico
American Express International (NZ), Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
American Express Limited
(USA) Delaware 
Alpha Card SCRL
Belgium
Alpha Card Merchant Services SCRL
Belgium
BCC Corporate NV/SA
Belgium
American Express (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.
Malaysia
American Express (Thai) Co. Ltd
Thailand
American Express Brasil Assessoria Empresarial Ltda.
Brazil
American Express International (B) SDN.BHD
Brunei Darussalam
American Express International Holdings, LLC
(USA) Delaware 
American Express Argentina S.A.
Argentina
American Express Holdings (France) SAS
France
American Express France SAS
France
American Express Carte France SA
France
American Express Change SAS
France
American Express Paris SAS
France
American Express Services SA
France
American Express Voyages SAS
France
American Express Management
France
American Express France Finance SNC
France
South Pacific Credit Card Limited
New Zealand
Centurion Finance Limited
New Zealand
American Express International, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
AE Exposure Management Limited
Jersey
American Express (India) Private Limited
India
American Express Asia Network Consulting (Beijing) Limited Company
China
American Express Australia Limited
Australia
American Express Company AS
Norway
American Express Corporate Travel SA
Belgium
American Express Denmark A/S
Denmark
American Express Group Services Limited
United Kingdom
2 
Name
Country Name
American Express Holding AB
Sweden
American Express Business Travel A/S
Denmark
American Express Business Travel AB
Sweden
American Express Business Travel AS
Norway
Forsakringsaktiebolaget Viator
Sweden
American Express Holdings Limited
United Kingdom
American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited
United Kingdom
American Express Services Europe Limited
United Kingdom
American Express Hungary Financial Services Closed Company Limited by Shares
Hungary
American Express Hungary Travel Services Ltd.
Hungary
American Express International (Taiwan), Inc.
Taiwan, Province of China
American Express International SA
Greece
Key Tours SA
Greece
American Express Japan Co., Ltd
Japan
American Express Locazioni Finanziarie s.r.l
Italy
American Express Payment Services Limited
United Kingdom
American Express Poland S.A.
Poland
American Express Reisebüro GmbH
Austria
American Express Services India Limited
India
American Express spol. s.r.o.
Czech Republic
American Express Swiss Holdings GmbH
Switzerland
Swisscard AECS AG
Switzerland
American Express Travel (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
Singapore
American Express Travel Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited
Hong Kong
CITS American Express Air Services Ltd
China
CITS American Express Southern Air Services Ltd
China
CITS American Express Travel Services Ltd
China
Farrington American Express Travel Services Limited
Hong Kong
American Express Travel Holdings (M) Company SDN. BHD.
Malaysia
Mayflower American Express Travel Services SDN. BHD.
Malaysia
American Express Travel Services Vostok, LLC
Russian Federation
ZAO “American Express International Services”
Russian Federation
American Express Wholesale Currency Services Pty Limited
Australia
Amex Broker Assicurativo s.r.l.
Italy
Amex General Insurance Agency, Inc.
Taiwan, Province of China
3 
Name
Country Name
Amex Life Insurance Marketing, Inc.
Taiwan, Province of China
Amex Travel Holding (Japan) Ltd.
Japan
American Express Nippon Travel Agency, Inc.
Japan
Interactive Transaction Solutions Limited
United Kingdom
Interactive Transactions Solutions SAS
France
Sociedad Internacional de Servicios de Panama S.A.
Panama
TransUnion Limited
Hong Kong
American Express Service (Thailand) Company Limited
Thailand
TRS Card International, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
American Express de Espana, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)
Spain
American Express E.F.C., S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)
Spain
American Express Foreign Exchange, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)
Spain
American Express Viajes, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)
Spain
American Express Barcelo Viajes SL
Spain
Amex Asesores de Seguros, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)
Spain
American Express Marketing & Development Corp.
(USA) Delaware 
American Express Prepaid Card Management Corporation
(USA) Arizona 
American Express Publishing Corporation
(USA) New York
American Express Receivables Financing Corporation II
(USA) Delaware
American Express Receivables Financing Corporation V LLC
(USA) Delaware
Amex (Middle East) B.S.C. (c)
Bahrain
Amex Al Omania LLC
Oman
Amex Egypt LLC
Egypt
ASAL (American Express Saudi Arabia Ltd)
Bahrain
Amex Bank of Canada
Canada
Amex Canada Inc.
Canada
Amex Card Services Company
(USA) Delaware 
Asesorías e Inversiones American Express Chile Limitada
Chile
Amex Inmobiliaria Limitada
Chile
Bansamex, S.A.
Spain
Cardmember Financial Services Limited
Jersey
Cavendish Holdings, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
Drillamex, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
FRC West Property. LLC
(USA) Arizona
4 
Name
Country Name
Harbor Payments, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
Fiware Holdings, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
Harbor Payments Corporation
(USA) Georgia
Southern Africa Travellers Cheque Company (Pty) Ltd
South Africa
Swiss Bankers Prepaid Services AG
Switzerland
Travel Impressions, Ltd.
(USA) Delaware 
Travellers Cheque Associates Limited
United Kingdom
AMEX Assurance Company
(USA) Illinois
Amexco Insurance Company
(USA) Vermont
National Express Company, Inc.
(USA) New York
The Balcor Company Holdings, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
The Balcor Company
(USA) Delaware 
Rexport, Inc.
(USA) Delaware 
5 
EX-23.1

5

dex231.htm

CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Exhibit 23.1 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 No. 2-46918, No. 2-59230, No. 2-64285, No. 2-73954, No. 2-89680, No. 33-01771, No. 33-02980, No. 33-28721,
No. 33-33552, No. 33-36442, No. 33-48629, No. 33-62124, No. 33-65008, No. 33-53801, No. 333-12683, No. 333-41779, No. 333-52699, No. 333-73111, No. 333-38238, No. 333-98479; and
No. 333-142710; Form S-3 No. 2-89469, No. 33-43268, No. 33-50997, No. 333-32525, No. 333-45445, No. 333-47085, No. 333-55761, No. 333-51828, No. 333-113768, No. 333-117835,
No. 333-138032 and 333-162791) of American Express Company of our report dated February 25, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2009
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 25, 2010
EX-31.1

6

dex311.htm

CERTIFICATION OF KENNETH I. CHENAULT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.1 
CERTIFICATION 
I, Kenneth I. Chenault, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of American Express Company; 
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
4. The registrant’s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over
financial reporting; and 
-1- 
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. 
Date: February 25, 2010
/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault
Kenneth I. Chenault
Chief Executive Officer
-2- 
EX-31.2

7

dex312.htm

CERTIFICATION OF DANIEL T. HENRY, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

EXHIBIT 31.2 
CERTIFICATION 
I, Daniel T. Henry, certify
that: 
1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of American Express Company; 
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
4. The registrant’s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant’s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant’s internal control over
financial reporting; and 
-1- 
5. The registrant’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. 
Date: February 25, 2010
/s/ Daniel T. Henry
Daniel T. Henry
Chief Financial Officer
-2- 
EX-32.1

8

dex321.htm

CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT

EXHIBIT 32.1 
Certification Pursuant to 
18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, 
as Adopted Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
In connection
with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of American Express Company (the “Company”) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the “Report”), Kenneth I.
Chenault, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Daniel T. Henry, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, that: 
(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934; and 
(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company. 
/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault
Name:
Kenneth I. Chenault
Title:
Chief Executive Officer
Date:
February 25, 2010
/s/ Daniel T. Henry
Name:
Daniel T. Henry
Title:
Chief Financial Officer
Date:
February 25, 2010
The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and is not being “filed” as part of the Form 10-K or as a separate disclosure document for purposes
of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or otherwise subject to liability under that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except to the extent that this Exhibit 32.1 is expressly and specifically incorporated by reference in any such filing. 
A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request. 
EX-101.INS

9

axp-20091231.xml

XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

xml version="1.0" encoding="us-ascii" standalone="yes"?
  EDGAR Online I-Metrix Xcelerate Instance Document, based on XBRL 2.1  http://www.edgar-online.com/ 
  Version: 6.3.11 
  Round: b5d2f8e6-7087-4dbd-8a2a-fd1ce81fa8c1 
  Creation date: 2010-02-25T09:10Z 
  Copyright (c) 2005-2010 EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
1196727420
27600000000
8246000000
10511000000
4445000000
-520000000
9638000000
240000000
0
1153000000
15268000000
11029000000
6390000000
-442000000
10164000000
232000000
0
1075000000
12526000000
20550000000
1574000000
20547000000
8428000000
3743000000
-699000000
-368000000
-1606000000
-80000000
459000000
10496000000
126074000000
216000000
0.20
3600000000
1160000000
1160000000
232000000
15486000000
6554000000
114233000000
126074000000
260000000
60041000000
12607000000
14592000000
2948000000
2719000000
141000000
8993000000
11841000000
2570000000
810000000
118000000
32178000000
3000000
12419000000
39000000
6433000000
458000000
44000000
64000000
216000000
-4393000000
-39641000000
1018000000
-1606000000
10496000000
232000000
0
2719000000
24337000000
15542000000
881000000
15542000000
8926000000
4130000000
507000000
-722000000
-712000000
-28000000
469000000
11144000000
124088000000
0
0.20
3600000000
1192000000
1192000000
237000000
26289000000
10597000000
109682000000
124088000000
0
52338000000
13213000000
13810000000
2782000000
3737000000
212000000
2344000000
14406000000
3268000000
546000000
109000000
33197000000
0
4064000000
27000000
5975000000
-291000000
15000000
31000000
244000000
-5007000000
-29504000000
506000000
-712000000
11144000000
237000000
0
3737000000
7022000000
1236000000
786000000
-129000000
0.63
4090000000
-127000000
648000000
740000000
3.40
3.34
166000000
2417000000
4126000000
3.49
3.44
-114000000
-0.09
-0.10
1568000000
1013000000
3361000000
226000000
927000000
-56000000
7424000000
673000000
6351000000
3981000000
566000000
731000000
400000000
3443000000
5438000000
15466000000
-16621000000
8011000000
4012000000
17762000000
24116000000
1751000000
5694000000
289000000
-33000000
-98000000
-80000000
2227000000
20377000000
3572000000
0
712000000
124000000
9592000000
938000000
852000000
20833000000
0
6154000000
3034000000
55000000
7825000000
2761000000
4103000000
202000000
9214000000
276000000
867000000
3572000000
1193000000
1173000000
4103000000
-851000000
-22000000
-3500000000
2682000000
0
7817000000
2280000000
23456000000
27559000000
1140000000
14596000000
1919000000
1507000000
1926000000
2684000000
26000000
0
0
0
289000000
-33000000
-98000000
-80000000
1020000000
494000000
4000000
12000000
-127000000
740000000
4012000000
-157000000
3066000000
--12-31
AXP
AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 
No
Yes
2009-12-31
10-K
0000004962
Yes
Large Accelerated Filer
false
-5008000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
22</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">SIGNIFICANT
CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Concentrations of credit
risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors
similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate credit
exposure is material in relation to American Express&#x2019; total
credit exposure. The Company&#x2019;s customers operate in diverse
industries, economic sectors and geographic regions.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table details
the Company&#x2019;s maximum credit exposure by category, including
the credit exposure associated with derivative financial
instruments, as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Billions, except
percentages)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">On-balance
sheet:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Individuals<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">68</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Financial
institutions<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">24</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. Government and
agencies<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">All other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>17</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">14</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total on-balance
sheet<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(e)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>116</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">117</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Unused
lines-of-credit-individuals<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(f)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>222</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">253</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Individuals primarily
include cardmember loans and receivables.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Financial institutions
primarily include debt obligations of banks, broker-dealers,
insurance companies and savings and loan associations.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. Government and
agencies represent debt obligations of the U.S. Government and its
agencies, states and municipalities, and government sponsored
entities.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">All other primarily
includes cardmember receivables from other corporate
institutions.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(e)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Certain distinctions
between categories require management judgment.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(f)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Because charge card
products have no preset spending limit, the associated credit limit
on cardmember receivables is not quantifiable. Therefore, the
quantified unused line-of-credit amounts only include the
approximate credit line available on cardmember loans (including
both for on-balance sheet loans and loans previously
securitized).</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the Company&#x2019;s most significant concentration of credit
risk was with individuals, including cardmember receivables and
loans. These amounts are generally advanced on an unsecured basis.
However, the Company reviews each potential customer&#x2019;s credit
application and evaluates the applicant&#x2019;s financial history
and ability and willingness to repay. The Company also considers
credit performance by customer tenure, industry, and geographic
location in managing credit exposure. The following table details
the Company&#x2019;s cardmember loans and receivables exposure
(including unused lines-of-credit on cardmember loans) in the
United States and International, as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Billions, except
percentages)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">On-balance
sheet:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">United States</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>47</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">56</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">International</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">On-balance sheet<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>67</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">75</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Unused
lines-of-credit-individuals:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">United States</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>181</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">211</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">International</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>41</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">42</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>222</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">253</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents cardmember loans
to individuals as well as receivables from individuals and
corporate institutions as discussed in footnotes (a)&#xA0;and
(d)&#xA0;from the previous table.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">EXPOSURE TO
AIRLINE INDUSTRY</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company has multiple
co-brand relationships and rewards partners, of which airlines are
one of the most important and valuable. The Company&#x2019;s largest
airline co-brand is Delta Air Lines (Delta) and this relationship
includes exclusive co-brand credit card partnerships and other
arrangements, including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and
travel. American Express&#x2019; Delta SkyMiles Credit Card co-brand
portfolio accounts for approximately 5 percent of the
Company&#x2019;s worldwide billed business and less than 15 percent
of worldwide cardmember lending receivables. Refer to Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of prepaid
miles acquired from Delta.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Over the last
couple of years, there were a significant number of airline
bankruptcies and liquidations, driven in part by volatile fuel
costs and weakening economies around the world. Historically, the
Company has not experienced significant revenue declines when a
particular airline scales back or ceases operations due to a
bankruptcy or other financial challenges because volumes generated
by that airline are typically shifted to other participants in the
industry that accept the Company&#x2019;s card products. The
Company&#x2019;s exposure to business and credit risk in the airline
industry is primarily through business arrangements where the
Company has remitted payment to the airline for a cardmember
purchase of tickets that have not yet been used or
&#x201C;flown&#x201D;. The Company mitigates this risk by delaying
payment to the airlines with deteriorating financial situations,
thereby increasing cash withheld to protect the Company in the
event the airline is liquidated. To date, the Company has not
experienced significant losses from airlines that have ceased
operations.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
6</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">INVESTMENT
SECURITIES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Investment securities
include debt and equity securities and are classified as
available-for-sale. The Company&#x2019;s investment securities,
principally debt securities, are carried at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains (losses) recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of income tax
provisions (benefits). Realized gains and losses are recognized in
results of operations upon disposition of the securities using the
specific identification method on a trade date basis. Refer to Note
3 for a description of the Company&#x2019;s methodology for
determining the fair value of its investment securities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following is a summary
of investment securities as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="32%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="12" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="12" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cost</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Gains</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cost</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Gains</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">State and municipal
obligations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,457</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>51</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(258</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,250</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6,628</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">37</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,034</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,631</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. Government treasury
obligations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,556</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,566</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,933</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">48</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,981</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. Government agency
obligations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,699</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>47</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,745</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,141</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">44</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,185</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Mortgage-backed
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>179</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>180</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">75</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Retained subordinated
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,088</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>512</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,599</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,328</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(584</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Equity
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>100</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>430</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>530</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">200</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">344</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">544</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Corporate debt
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,333</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(12</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,335</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">230</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">218</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign government bonds
and obligations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>90</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>92</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">84</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">81</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(e)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>40</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>40</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">67</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">67</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>23,542</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,069</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(274</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24,337</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13,684</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">477</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,635</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12,526</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents mortgage-backed
securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie
Mae.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Consists of investments in
retained subordinated securities from the Company&#x2019;s
cardmember loan securitization program.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents the
Company&#x2019;s investment in Industrial and Commercial Bank of
China (ICBC).</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The December&#xA0;31, 2009
balance includes $1.1 billion (cost basis) of corporate debt
obligations issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
(TLGP) that are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC).</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(e)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other is primarily
comprised of investments in various mutual funds.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">OTHER-THAN-TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENT</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Realized losses are
recognized when management determines that a decline in value is
other-than-temporary. Such determination requires judgment
regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews
and evaluates its investments at least quarterly and more often, as
market conditions may require, to identify investments that have
indications of other-than-temporary impairments. The determination
of other-than-temporary impairment is a subjective process,
requiring the use of judgments and assumptions. It is reasonably
possible that a change in estimate will occur in the near term
relating to other-than- temporary impairment. Accordingly, the
Company considers several factors when evaluating debt securities
for an other-than-temporary impairment including the determination
of the extent to which the decline in fair value of the security is
due to increased default risk for the specific issuer or market
interest rate risk. With respect to increased default risk, the
Company assesses the collectibility of principal and interest
payments by monitoring issuers&#x2019; credit ratings, related
changes to those ratings, specific credit events associated with
the individual issuers as well as the credit ratings of a financial
guarantor, where applicable, and the extent to which amortized cost
exceeds fair value and the duration and size of that difference.
With respect to market interest rate risk, including benchmark
interest rates and credit spreads, the Company assesses whether it
has the intent to sell the securities, and whether it is more
likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the
securities before recovery of any unrealized losses.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
provides information about the Company&#x2019;s investment
securities with gross unrealized losses and the length of time that
individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss
position as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="37%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="12" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="12" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less than 12
months</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12 months or
more</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less than 12
months</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12 months or
more</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="bottom">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Description of
Securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">State and municipal
obligations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>837</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(25</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,074</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(233</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,515</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(326</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,037</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(708</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. Government agency
obligations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>249</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Mortgage-backed
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>120</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Retained subordinated
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>75</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(584</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Corporate debt
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>102</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>38</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(11</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">35</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">99</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign government bonds
and obligations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,308</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(29</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,191</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(245</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,321</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(915</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,136</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(720</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the unrealized losses of temporary impairments by ratio
of fair value to amortized cost as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="33%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Dollars in
millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="7" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less than 12
months</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="7" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12 months or
more</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="bottom">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Ratio of Fair Value to
Amortized Cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Number&#xA0;of<br />
Securities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Number&#xA0;of<br />
Securities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Number&#xA0;of</font><br />
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Unrealized<br />
Losses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;<br />
&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2009:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">90%&#x2013;100%</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,289</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(25</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>235</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,414</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(87</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>390</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,703</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(112</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less than 90%</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>83</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>777</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(158</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>796</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(162</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total as of<br />
December&#xA0;31, 2009</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>157</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,308</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>318</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,191</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(245</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>475</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,499</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(274</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">90%&#x2013;100%</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">327</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,289</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">37</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">111</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">364</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,400</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less than 90%</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">321</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,032</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(842</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">310</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,025</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(713</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">631</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,057</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,555</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total as of<br />
December&#xA0;31, 2008</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">648</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,321</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(915</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">347</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,136</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(720</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">995</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,457</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,635</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The gross unrealized losses
on state and municipal securities and all other debt securities are
attributable to a number of reasons such as issuer specific credit
spreads and changes in market interest rates.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In assessing
default risk on these securities, excluding the Company&#x2019;s
retained subordinated securities, the Company has qualitatively
considered the key factors identified above and determined that it
expects to collect all of the contractual cash flows due on the
securities. In assessing default risk on the retained subordinated
securities, the Company has analyzed the projected cash flows of
the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending
Trust) and expects to collect all of the contractual cash flows due
on the securities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Overall, for
the investment securities in gross unrealized loss positions
identified above (a)&#xA0;the Company does not intend to sell the
securities, (b)&#xA0;it is more likely than not that the Company
will not be required to sell the securities before recovery of the
unrealized losses, and (c)&#xA0;the Company expects that the
contractual principal and interest will be received on the
securities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Gross realized gains and
losses on sales of investment securities, included in other
non-interest revenues, are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="71%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gains</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>226</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Losses</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>225</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Primarily represents the
gain from the sale of 50 percent of the Company&#x2019;s investment
in ICBC.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Contractual maturities of
investment securities, excluding equity securities and other
securities (primarily mutual funds with no stated maturity), as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009, are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="68%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cost</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated<br />
Fair&#xA0;Value</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Due in:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Due within 1
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10,285</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10,333</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Due after 1 year but within
5 years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,439</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,919</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Due after 5 years but
within 10 years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>704</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>759</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Due after 10
years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,974</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,756</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>23,402</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>23,767</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s
individual investments in the unrated classes of its retained
subordinated securities contain multiple maturity dates over
periods ranging from 2010 through 2018. Accordingly, in the table
above, the Company has classified such investments based on the
weighted-average maturity. In addition, the expected payments on
state and municipal obligations and mortgage-backed securities may
not coincide with their contractual maturities because borrowers
have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.</font></p>
</div>
40000000
196000000
-233000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
24</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">COMMITMENTS
AND CONTINGENCIES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company and its
subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and arbitration
proceedings, including class actions, concerning matters arising in
connection with the conduct of their respective business
activities. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to
each of these actions and intends to defend them vigorously. In the
course of its business, the Company and its subsidiaries are also
subject to governmental examinations, information gathering
requests, subpoenas, inquiries, and investigations. The Company
believes it is not a party to, nor are any of its properties the
subject of, any pending legal, arbitration, regulatory, tax or
investigative proceedings that would have a material adverse effect
on the Company&#x2019;s consolidated financial condition or
liquidity. However, it is possible that the outcome of any such
proceedings could have a material impact on results of operations
in any particular reporting period as the proceedings are
resolved.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">VISA AND
MASTERCARD SETTLEMENTS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As previously disclosed the
Company reached settlement agreements with Visa and MasterCard.
Under the terms of the settlement agreements, the Company will
receive aggregate maximum payments of $4.05 billion. The settlement
with Visa comprised an initial payment of $1.13 billion ($700
million after-tax) that was recorded as a gain in 2007. Having met
quarterly performance criteria, the Company recognized $280 million
($172&#xA0;million after-tax) from Visa in 2009 and 2008, and $600
million ($372 million after-tax) and $300 million ($186 million
after-tax) from MasterCard in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
remaining Visa and MasterCard quarterly payments, subject to the
Company achieving certain quarterly performance criteria, continue
through the fourth and second quarters of 2011, respectively, and
are included in other, net expenses within the Corporate&#xA0;&amp;
Other segment.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
also has contingent obligations to make payments under contractual
agreements entered into as part of the ongoing operation of the
Company&#x2019;s business, primarily with co-brand partners. The
contingent obligations under such arrangements were approximately
$6.0 billion as of December&#xA0;31, 2009.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
leases certain facilities and equipment under noncancelable and
cancelable agreements. The total rental expense amounted to $362
million in 2009 including lease termination penalties of $36
million. Rent expense was $337 million and $300 million in 2008 and
2007, respectively. As of December&#xA0;31, 2009, the minimum
aggregate rental commitment under all noncancelable operating
leases (net of subleases of $5 million) was:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2">&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2010</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>254</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>228</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>194</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>181</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>164</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Thereafter</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,316</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,337</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the Company&#x2019;s future minimum lease payments under
capital leases or other similar arrangements is approximately $12
million per annum from 2010 through 2013, $14 million in 2014 and
$40 million thereafter. Refer to Note 22 for a discussion of the
Company&#x2019;s customer commitments, related to unused
lines-of-credit, as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008.</font></p>
</div>
0.72
3024000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
15</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">CHANGES IN
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) is a balance sheet item in the
Shareholders&#x2019; Equity section of the Company&#x2019;s
Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is comprised of items that have not
been recognized in earnings but may be recognized in earnings in
the future when certain events occur. Changes in each component of
OCI for the three years ended December&#xA0;31, were as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 7px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="47%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions), net of
tax<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net<br />
Unrealized<br />
Gains (Losses)<br />
on&#xA0;Investment<br />
Securities</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net<br />
Unrealized<br />
Gains&#xA0;(Losses)<br />
on</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivatives</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign<br />
Currency<br />
Translation<br />
Adjustments</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net<br />
Unrealized<br />
Pension<br />
and&#xA0;Other<br />
Postretirement<br />
Benefit Costs</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accumulated<br />
Other<br />
Comprehensive<br />
(Loss) Income</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Balances as of
December&#xA0;31, 2006</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">92</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(222</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(417</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(520</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net unrealized gains
(losses)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(68</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(148</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassification for
realized (gains) losses into earnings</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(32</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other losses<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign currency
translation adjustments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">347</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">347</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net losses related to
hedges of investment in foreign operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(380</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(380</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pension and other
postretirement benefit costs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">285</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">285</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discontinued
operations<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">52</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">53</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change in accumulated
other comprehensive (loss) income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(98</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(33</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">289</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">78</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Balances as of
December&#xA0;31, 2007</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(71</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(255</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(128</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(442</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net unrealized gains
(losses)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(718</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(170</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(888</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassification for
realized (gains) losses into earnings</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">161</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">153</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign currency
translation adjustments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,102</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,102</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net gains related to hedges
of investment in foreign operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">961</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">961</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pension and other
postretirement benefit costs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(329</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(329</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discontinued
operations<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">41</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change in accumulated
other comprehensive (loss) income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(711</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(113</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(331</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,164</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Balances as of
December&#xA0;31, 2008</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(699</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(368</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(459</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,606</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net unrealized gains
(losses)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,351</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(22</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,329</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassification for
realized (gains) losses into earnings</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(145</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>74</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(71</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign currency
translation adjustments<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>523</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>523</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net losses related to
hedges of investment in foreign operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(877</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(877</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pension and other
postretirement benefit costs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change in accumulated
other comprehensive (loss) income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,206</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>52</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(354</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>894</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Balances as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009</b></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>507</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(28</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(722</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(469</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(712</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The following table shows
the tax impact for the three years ended December&#xA0;31, for the
changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss)
income:</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="87%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investment
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>749</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(472</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(84</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivatives</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign currency
translation adjustments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>33</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(66</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pension and other
postretirement benefit costs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(28</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(159</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">152</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discontinued
operations<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">29</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total tax impact</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>783</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(685</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">58</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">In connection with the
Company&#x2019;s adoption of hybrid financial instrument accounting
requirements, as of January&#xA0;1, 2007, the Company recognized a
gain of $80 million ($50 million after-tax) related to the fair
value of the interest-only strip, which was recorded in other
comprehensive (loss) income in previous periods. Changes in the
fair value of the interest-only strip subsequent to the adoption of
this standard are reflected in securitization income,
net.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Relates to the change in
accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income prior to the
dispositions of AEB and AEIDC.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes a $190 million
other comprehensive loss, recorded in the third quarter of 2009,
representing the correction of an error related to the accounting
in prior periods for cumulative translation adjustments associated
with a net investment in foreign subsidiaries. (Refer to Note 19
for further details).</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
26</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">PARENT
COMPANY</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Parent
Company &#x2013; Condensed Statements of Income</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Years Ended
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-interest
revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gain on sale of
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>211</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total non-interest
revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>215</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>142</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">286</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">258</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(562</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(462</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(360</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(205</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(170</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(89</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expenses</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Salaries and employee
benefits</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>111</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">129</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">132</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>161</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">119</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">160</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>272</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">248</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">292</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(477</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(418</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(381</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income tax
benefit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(164</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(176</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(157</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net loss before equity in
net income of subsidiaries and affiliates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(313</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(242</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(224</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Equity in net income of
subsidiaries and affiliates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,450</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,113</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,350</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,137</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,871</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,126</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loss from discontinued
operations, net of tax</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(172</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,130</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,699</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,012</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Parent
Company &#x2013; Condensed Balance Sheets</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As of
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash and cash
equivalents</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,679</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investment
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>530</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">594</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Equity in net assets of
subsidiaries and affiliates of continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14,677</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12,563</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accounts receivable, less
reserves</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>523</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,153</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loan to affiliate in
discontinued operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">238</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Premises and equipment
&#x2014; at cost, less accumulated depreciation: 2009, $34;
2008,&#xA0;$33</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>52</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">46</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Due from
subsidiaries</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,197</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,928</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>389</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">716</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Equity in net liabilities
of subsidiaries and affiliates of discontinued
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(44</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>26,047</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">21,197</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Liabilities and
Shareholders&#x2019; Equity</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accounts payable and other
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,398</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,424</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Long-term debt</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10,243</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,932</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11,641</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9,356</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Shareholders&#x2019;
equity</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Common shares</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>237</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">232</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Additional paid-in
capital</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11,144</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">10,496</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Retained
earnings</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,737</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,719</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accumulated other
comprehensive loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(712</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,606</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total shareholders&#x2019;
equity</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14,406</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11,841</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total liabilities and
shareholders&#x2019; equity</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>26,047</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">21,197</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Parent Company
guarantees up to $104 million of indebtedness under lines of credit
that subsidiaries have with various banks. As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, $17 million in lines of credit have been drawn
down.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Parent
Company &#x2013; Condensed Statements of Cash Flows</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Years Ended
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Cash Flows from
Operating Activities</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,130</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,699</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,012</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Adjustments to reconcile
net income to cash provided by operating activities:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Equity in net (income) loss
of subsidiaries and affiliates:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014; Continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2,450</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(3,113</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4,350</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014; Discontinued
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">172</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Dividends received from
subsidiaries and affiliates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,103</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,340</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,708</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gain on sale of
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(211</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loan to affiliate in
discontinued operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(238</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other operating activities,
primarily with subsidiaries</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,911</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,915</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(242</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net cash provided by (used
in) operating activities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,490</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(55</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,242</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Cash Flows from
Investing Activities</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Sale/redemption of
investments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>361</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Premises and
equipment</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investments in subsidiaries
and affiliates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(550</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net cash provided by (used
in) investing activities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>341</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(72</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(560</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Cash Flows from
Financing Activities</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Issuance of debt</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,500</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Issuance of American
Express Series A preferred shares and warrants</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,389</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Repurchase of American
Express Series A preferred shares</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(3,389</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Principal payment of
debt</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(505</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,995</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Issuance of American
Express common shares and other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>614</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">176</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">852</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Repurchase of American
Express common shares</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(218</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(3,572</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Repurchase of American
Express stock warrants</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(340</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Dividends paid</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(924</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(836</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(712</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net cash provided by (used
in) financing activities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,845</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">127</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2,682</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change in cash and cash
equivalents</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,676</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash and cash equivalents
at beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash and cash equivalents
at end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,679</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
10</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">DEBT</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">SHORT-TERM
BORROWINGS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s
short-term borrowings outstanding, defined as borrowings with
original maturities of less than one year, were as follows as of
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="50%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except
percentages)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="7" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="7" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Outstanding<br />
Balance</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Stated<br />
Rate on<br />
Debt<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Effective<br />
Interest<br />
Rate with<br />
Swaps<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)(b)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Outstanding<br />
Balance</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Stated<br />
Rate on<br />
Debt<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Effective<br />
Interest<br />
Rate with<br />
Swaps<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)(b)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Commercial paper<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>975</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,272</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Federal funds
purchased</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">470</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other short-term
borrowings<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,369</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,251</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.90</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.88</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,344</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.57</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8,993</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.11</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">For floating rate debt
issuances, the stated and effective interest rates are based on the
floating rates in effect as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. These rates may not be indicative of future interest
rates.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effective interest rates
are only presented if swaps are in place to hedge the underlying
debt.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">December&#xA0;31, 2008
balance includes $4.5 billion of commercial paper purchased by the
Federal Reserve Bank&#x2019;s Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) through
the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF). As of
December&#xA0;31, 2009, no commercial paper purchased by the SPV
was outstanding.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes interest-bearing
overdrafts with banks of $277 million and $382 million as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition,
balances include interest bearing amounts due to merchants in
accordance with merchant service agreements, as well as other
short-term borrowings.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">LONG-TERM
DEBT</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s
long-term debt outstanding, defined as debt with original
maturities of one year or greater, as of December&#xA0;31 was as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="42%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except
percentages)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="9" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="7" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Maturity<br />
Dates</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Outstanding<br />
Balance<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Stated<br />
Rate on<br />
Debt<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Effective<br />
Interest<br />
Rate with<br />
Swaps<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)(c)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Outstanding<br />
Balance<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Stated<br />
Rate on<br />
Debt<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Year-End<br />
Effective<br />
Interest<br />
Rate with<br />
Swaps<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)(c)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>American Express
Company<br />
(Parent Company only)</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2011&#x2013;2038</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9,493</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6.83</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6.01</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,177</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6.29</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.53</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.75</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Subordinated
Debentures<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2036</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>750</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6.80</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6.80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>American Express Travel
Related Services Company, Inc.</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>700</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.25</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,500</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.76</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2011</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>500</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.63</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">500</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>American Express Credit
Corporation</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2015</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11,478</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.58</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3.26</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9,683</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.60</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.64</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2013</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,761</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,807</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.77</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Borrowings under Bank
Credit Facilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,232</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.23</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.52</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,506</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.88</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>American Express
Centurion Bank</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2017</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,726</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.69</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2.86</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,287</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.48</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.59</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,975</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6,300</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.44</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>American Express Bank,
FSB</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2011&#x2013;2017</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>7,137</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.40</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2.70</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,182</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.40</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.82</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2017</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,502</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.80</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.22</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8,220</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.59</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.98</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>American Express
Receivables<br />
Financing Corporation V LLC</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,000</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.02</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,000</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.02</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating Rate Senior
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,826</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.57</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,826</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating Rate Subordinated
Notes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2012</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>144</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.67</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">144</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Other</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed Rate
Instruments<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(e)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2010&#x2013;2014</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>114</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.98</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">154</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6.79</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>52,338</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.11</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">60,041</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.63</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The outstanding balances
reflect the impact of fair value hedge accounting whereby certain
fixed rate notes have been swapped to floating rate through the use
of interest rate swaps and are marked to market, as are the
associated swaps, which are reported as derivative assets or
liabilities. In 2009 and 2008, the impact on long-term debt due to
fair value hedge accounting was $0.6 billion and $1.0 billion,
respectively. Refer to Note 12 for more details on the
Company&#x2019;s treatment of fair value hedges.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">For floating rate debt
issuances, the stated and effective interest rates are based on the
floating rates in effect as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. These rates may not be indicative of future interest
rates.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effective interest rates
are only presented when swaps are in place to hedge the underlying
debt.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The maturity date will
automatically be extended to September&#xA0;1, 2066, except in the
case of either (i)&#xA0;a prior redemption or (ii)&#xA0;a default.
See further discussion below.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(e)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes $87 million and
$89 million as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
related to a sale-leaseback transaction completed in
2004.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the Parent Company had $750 million principal outstanding of
Subordinated Debentures that accrue interest at an annual rate of
6.80 percent until September&#xA0;1, 2016, and at an annual rate of
three-month LIBOR plus 2.23 percent thereafter. At the
Company&#x2019;s option, the Subordinated Debentures are redeemable
for cash after September&#xA0;1, 2016 at 100 percent of the
principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest. If the
Company fails to achieve specified performance measures, it will be
required to issue its common shares and apply the net proceeds to
make interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures. No dividends
on the Company&#x2019;s common or preferred shares could be paid
until such interest payments are made. The Company would fail to
meet these specific performance measures if (i)&#xA0;the
Company&#x2019;s tangible common equity is less than 4 percent of
total adjusted assets for the most recent quarter or (ii)&#xA0;if
the trailing two quarters&#x2019; consolidated net income is equal
to or less than zero and tangible common equity as of the trigger
determination date, and as of the end of the quarter end six months
prior, has in each case declined by 10 percent or more from the
tangible common equity as of the end of the quarter 18 months prior
to the trigger determination date. The Company met the specified
performance measures in 2009.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, the Company was not in violation
of any of its debt covenants.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Aggregate annual maturities
on long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) were
as follows as of December&#xA0;31, 2009:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="62%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2012</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2013</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2014</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Thereafter</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Company
(Parent Company only)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>399</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>998</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,248</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>7,598</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10,243</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Travel
Related Services Company, Inc.</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,200</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,200</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Credit
Corporation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,506</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,032</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,792</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,138</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,488</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>515</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>19,471</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Centurion
Bank</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,143</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,212</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,346</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,701</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Bank,
FSB</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,752</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,170</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,612</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,807</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,298</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11,639</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express
Receivables Financing Corporation V LLC</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,410</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,560</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,970</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>87</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>114</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10,829</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>8,810</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9,176</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>7,943</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,823</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10,757</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>52,338</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009 and 2008, the Company maintained total bank lines of credit of
$12.2 billion and $11.2 billion, respectively. Of the total credit
lines, $9.0 billion and $8.7 billion were unutilized, and for the
years ended December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, the
Company paid $6.8 million and $6.0 million in fees to maintain
these lines. $8.2 billion and $7.9 billion of these unutilized
amounts supported commercial paper borrowings as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The
availability of these credit lines is subject to the
Company&#x2019;s compliance with certain financial covenants,
including the maintenance by the Company of consolidated tangible
net worth of at least $4.1 billion, the maintenance by American
Express Credit Corporation (Credco) of a 1.25 ratio of combined
earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges, and the compliance by
American Express Centurion Bank (Centurion Bank) and American
Express Bank, FSB (FSB) with applicable regulatory capital adequacy
guidelines. As of December&#xA0;31, 2009, the Company&#x2019;s
consolidated tangible net worth was approximately $11.6 billion,
Credco&#x2019;s ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to
fixed charges was 1.59 and Centurion Bank and FSB each exceeded
their regulatory capital adequacy&#xA0;guidelines.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The committed
bank credit facilities do not contain material adverse change
clauses and the facilities may not be terminated should there be a
change in the Company&#x2019;s credit rating.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
paid total interest primarily related to short- and long-term debt,
corresponding interest rate swaps and customer deposits of $2.3
billion, $3.5 billion and $3.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
9</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">CUSTOMER
DEPOSITS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
customer deposits were categorized as interest-bearing or
non-interest-bearing deposits as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S.:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest-bearing</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>25,579</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">14,377</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-interest-bearing</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">18</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-U.S.:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest-bearing</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>680</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,072</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-interest-bearing</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>17</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total customer
deposits</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>26,289</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">15,486</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The customer deposits are
aggregated by deposit type offered by the Company as of
December&#xA0;31 as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. retail
deposits:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash sweep and savings
accounts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10,498</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,247</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Certificates of
deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15,081</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6,258</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Institutional and other
deposits</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>710</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,981</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total customer
deposits</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>26,289</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">15,486</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The scheduled maturities of
all certificates of deposit as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 are as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="53%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S.</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-U.S.</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2010</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,854</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>394</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,248</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2011</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,993</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,994</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2012</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,146</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,146</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2013</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,715</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,715</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2014</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>986</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>986</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">After 5 years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>387</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>387</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15,081</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>395</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15,476</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or more were
as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="77%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S.</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>196</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">894</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-U.S.</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">153</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>196</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,047</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
</div>
1070000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
12</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">DERIVATIVES
AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company uses derivative
financial instruments to manage exposure to various market risks.
Market risk is the risk to earnings or value resulting from
movements in market prices. The Company&#x2019;s market risk
exposure is primarily generated by:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Interest rate risk in its card and insurance and travelers
cheque businesses, and its investment portfolios; and</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Foreign exchange risk in its
international&#xA0;operations.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">General principles and the
overall framework for managing market risk across the Company are
defined in the Market Risk Policy, which is the responsibility of
the Asset-Liability Committee (ALCO). Market risk limits and
escalation triggers in that policy are approved by the ALCO and by
the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Committee (ERMC). Market risk
is centrally managed by the Market Risk Committee, which reports
into the ALCO and is chaired by the Chief Market Risk Officer of
the Company. Market risk management is also guided by policies
covering the use of derivative financial instruments, funding and
liquidity and investments. Derivative financial instruments derive
their value from an underlying variable or multiple variables,
including interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity indices or
prices. These instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or
alter exposure to various market risks and, for that reason, are an
integral component of the Company&#x2019;s market risk
management.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The
Company&#x2019;s market exposures are in large part by-products of
the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate risk
arises through the funding of cardmember receivables and fixed-rate
loans with variable-rate borrowings as well as through the risk to
net interest margin from changes in the relationship between
benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Interest rate
exposure within the Company&#x2019;s charge card and fixed-rate
lending products is managed by varying the proportion of total
funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt and deposits
compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In addition, interest
rate swaps are used from time to time to effectively convert
fixed-rate debt to variable-rate or to convert variable-rate debt
to fixed rate. The Company may change the mix between variable-rate
and fixed-rate funding based on changes in business volumes and
mix, among other factors. The majority of its cardmember loans,
which are linked to a benchmark rate such as Prime that can reprice
monthly, are funded with variable-rate funding, the majority of
which are linked to LIBOR.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Foreign
exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency charges,
foreign currency balance sheet exposures, translation of foreign
subsidiary equity, and foreign currency earnings in international
units. The Company&#x2019;s foreign exchange risk is managed
primarily by entering into agreements to buy and sell currencies on
a spot basis or by hedging this market exposure to the extent it is
economically justified through various means, including the use of
derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward,
options, and cross-currency swap contracts, which can help
&#x201C;lock in&#x201D; the value of the Company&#x2019;s exposure to
specific currencies. The Company does not engage in derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Derivative
financial instruments may contain counterparty credit risk. The
Company manages this risk by considering the current exposure,
which is the replacement cost of contracts on the measurement date,
as well as estimating the maximum potential value of the contracts
over the next 12 months, considering such factors as the volatility
of the underlying or reference index. To mitigate derivative credit
risk, counterparties are required to be pre-approved and rated as
investment grade. Counterparty risk exposures are monitored by the
Company&#x2019;s Institutional Risk Management Committee (IRMC). The
IRMC formally reviews large institutional exposures to ensure
compliance with the Company&#x2019;s ERMC guidelines and procedures
and determines the risk mitigation actions, when necessary.
Additionally, to mitigate counterparty credit risk the Company may,
on occasion, enter into master netting agreements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, the counterparty credit risk
associated with the Company&#x2019;s derivative financial
instruments was not significant. In relation to the Company&#x2019;s
credit risk, under the terms of its derivative financial
instruments, the Company is not required to either immediately
settle any outstanding liability balances, or post collateral upon
the occurrence of a specified credit risk-related event.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s
derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for changes in fair
value depends on the instruments&#x2019; intended use and the
resulting hedge designation, if any, as discussed below. Refer to
Note 3 for a description of&#xA0;the Company&#x2019;s methodology
for determining the fair value&#xA0;of its derivative financial
instruments. The following table summarizes the total gross fair
value, excluding interest accruals, of derivative product assets
and liabilities as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other assets<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other&#xA0;liabilities<br />
Fair Value</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivatives designated as
hedging instruments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest rate
contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair value
hedges</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>632</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,072</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash flow hedges</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">125</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign exchange
contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net investment
hedges</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>132</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">535</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>130</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">165</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total derivatives
designated as hedging instruments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>765</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,607</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>180</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">290</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivatives not designated
as hedging instruments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest rate
contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">20</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign exchange
contracts<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(</sup><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">a</sup><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>57</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">166</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>95</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">173</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Equity-linked
contract<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(</sup><u><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">b</sup></u><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total derivatives not
designated as hedging instruments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>68</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">175</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>103</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">193</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total
derivatives<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(</sup><u><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">c</sup></u><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>833</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,782</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>283</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">483</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, foreign exchange contracts also include foreign currency
derivatives embedded in certain operating agreements.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents an equity-linked
derivative embedded in one of the Company&#x2019;s investment
securities.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GAAP permits the netting of
derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and
its derivative counterparty. As of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
$33 million and $39 million, respectively, of derivative assets and
liabilities have been offset and presented net on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">DERIVATIVE
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS THAT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Derivative financial
instruments executed for hedge accounting purposes are documented
and designated as such when the Company enters into the contracts.
In accordance with its risk management policies, the Company
structures its hedges with very similar terms to the hedged items.
The Company formally assesses, at inception of the hedge accounting
relationship and on a quarterly basis, whether derivatives
designated as hedges are highly effective in offsetting the fair
value or cash flows of hedged items. These assessments usually are
made through the application of the regression analysis method. If
it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective as a
hedge, the Company will discontinue the application of hedge
accounting.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">FAIR VALUE
HEDGES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">A fair value hedge involves
a derivative designated to hedge the Company&#x2019;s exposure to
future changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability, or an
identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular
risk. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk associated with
its fixed-rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps
to convert certain fixed-rate long-term debt to floating-rate at
the time of issuance. As of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, the
Company hedged $15.1 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively, of
its fixed-rate debt to floating-rate debt using interest rate
swaps.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">To the extent
the fair value hedge is effective, the gain or loss on the hedging
instrument offsets the loss or gain on the hedged item attributable
to the hedged risk. Any difference between the changes in the fair
value of the derivative and the hedged item is referred to as hedge
ineffectiveness and is recorded in earnings as a component of
other, net expenses. Hedge ineffectiveness may be caused by
differences between the debt&#x2019;s interest coupon and the
benchmark rate, which is in turn primarily due to credit spreads at
inception of the hedging relationship that are not reflected in the
valuation of the interest rate swap. Furthermore, hedge
ineffectiveness may be caused by changes in the relationship
between 3-month LIBOR and 1-month LIBOR rates, as these so-called
basis spreads may impact the valuation of the interest rate swap
without causing an offsetting impact in the value of the hedged
debt. If a fair value hedge is de-designated or no longer
considered to be effective, changes in fair value of the</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">derivative continue to be
recorded through earnings but the hedged asset or liability is no
longer adjusted for changes in fair value. The existing basis
adjustment of the hedged asset or liability is then amortized or
accreted as an adjustment to yield over the remaining life of that
asset or liability.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of
fair value hedges associated with the Company&#x2019;s fixed-rate
long-term debt described above for the years ended
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="45%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td width="13%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Statement of Income</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="10">&#xA0;<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2">&#xA0;<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2">&#xA0;<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2">&#xA0;<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2">&#xA0;<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="8"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="9"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="9"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="7"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="8" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative&#xA0;contract&#xA0;(loss) gain</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="7" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Hedged item gain
(loss)</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" rowspan="2" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Ineffective&#xA0;net</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(losses)
gains</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amount<br />
recognized</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amount<br />
recognized</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative
relationship</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Location</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Location</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest rate
contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other,&#xA0;net&#xA0;expenses</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(446</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">967</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other,&#xA0;net&#xA0;expenses</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>437</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(898</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(9</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">69</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">CASH FLOW
HEDGES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">A cash flow hedge involves
a derivative financial instrument designated to hedge the
Company&#x2019;s exposure to variable future cash flows attributable
to a particular risk of an existing recognized asset or liability,
or a forecasted transaction. The Company hedges existing long-term
variable-rate debt, the rollover of short-term borrowings and the
anticipated forecasted issuance of additional funding through the
use of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate
swaps. These instruments effectively convert floating-rate debt to
fixed-rate debt for the duration of the swap. As of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, the Company hedged $1.6 billion
and $4.7 billion, respectively, of its floating debt using interest
rate swaps.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">For derivatives
that qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain
or loss on the derivatives are recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) income and reclassified into earnings when the
hedged cash flows are recognized in earnings. The amount that is
reclassified into earnings is presented in the Consolidated
Statements of Income with the hedged instrument or transaction
impact, primarily in interest expense. Any ineffective portion of
the gain or loss on the derivatives is reported as a component of
other, net expenses. If a cash flow hedge is de-designated or
terminated prior to maturity, the amount previously recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income is recognized into
earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. If
a hedge relationship is discontinued because it is probable that
the forecasted transaction will not occur according to the original
strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in accumulated
other comprehensive (loss) income are recognized into earnings
immediately.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In the normal
course of business, as the hedged cash flows are recognized into
earnings, the Company expects to reclassify $32 million of net
pretax losses on derivative instruments from accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) income into earnings during the next 12
months.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NET
INVESTMENT HEDGES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">A net investment hedge is
used to hedge future changes in currency exposure of a net
investment in a foreign operation. The Company primarily designates
foreign currency derivatives, typically foreign exchange forwards,
and on occasion foreign currency denominated debt, as hedges of net
investments in certain foreign operations. These instruments reduce
exposure to changes in currency exchange rates on the
Company&#x2019;s investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. The effective
portion of the gain or loss on net investment hedges are recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income as part of the
cumulative translation adjustment. Any ineffective portion of the
gain or loss on net investment hedges is recognized in other, net
expenses during the period of change.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of
cash flow hedges and net investment hedges for the years ended
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="52%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="8" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative impact on
statement of<br />
income (loss) gain</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="8" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative&#xA0;ineffectiveness</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(loss)
gain</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Location</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassified
from<br />
OCI&#xA0;into&#xA0;Income</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amount</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassified&#xA0;from<br />
OCI&#xA0;into&#xA0;Income</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Location</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassified
from<br />
OCI&#xA0;into Income</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amount</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative
relationship</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash flow hedges<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)(b)</sup>:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest rate
contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest&#xA0;expense</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(115</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(247</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other,&#xA0;net&#xA0;expenses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net investment
hedges<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign exchange
contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other,&#xA0;net&#xA0;expenses</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other,
net&#xA0;expenses</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009 and 2008, there was no impact on the Consolidated Statements
of Income due to forecasted transactions no longer probable to
occur.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The effective portion of
the gain or loss on the derivatives is recorded in accumulated
other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI) and is presented in Note
15.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">DERIVATIVES
NOT DESIGNATED AS HEDGES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company has derivative
financial instruments that act as economic hedges and are not
designated for hedge accounting purposes. Foreign currency
transactions and non-U.S. dollar cash flow exposures from time to
time may be partially or fully economically hedged through foreign
currency contracts, primarily foreign exchange forwards, options,
and cross-currency swaps. These hedges generally mature within one
year. Foreign currency contracts involve the purchase and sale of a
designated currency at an agreed upon rate for settlement on a
specified date. The changes in the fair value of the derivatives
effectively offset the related foreign exchange gains or losses on
the underlying balance sheet exposures. From time to time, the
Company may enter into interest rate swaps to specifically manage
funding costs related to its proprietary card business.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company has
certain operating agreements whose payments may be linked to a
market rate or price, primarily foreign currency rates. The payment
components of these agreements may meet the definition of an
embedded derivative, which is assessed to determine if it requires
separate accounting and reporting. If so, the embedded derivative
is accounted for separately and is classified as a foreign exchange
contract based on its primary risk exposure. In addition, the
Company also holds an investment security containing an embedded
equity-linked derivative.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">For derivative
financial instruments that are not designated as hedges, changes in
fair value are reported in current period earnings.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of
derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges for the
years ended December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="44%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td width="40%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" rowspan="2" align="right">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income&#xA0;Statement classification of gain (loss)
on</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="right">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">derivatives not
designated as hedges</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amount&#xA0;recognized&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative
relationship</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivatives not designated
as hedges</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="top"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest rate
contracts</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other, net expenses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>17</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(33</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign exchange
contracts<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other non-interest revenues</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest and dividends on investment
securities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest expense on short-term borrowings</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest expense on long-term debt and other</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>35</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">22</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other, net expenses</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(38</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Equity-linked
contract</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other non-interest revenues</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="top" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="top" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="top" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>56</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(43</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">For the period ended
December&#xA0;31, 2009, foreign exchange contracts include embedded
foreign currency derivatives. Gains (Losses) on embedded
derivatives are included in other, net expenses.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
20</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">STOCK
PLANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">STOCK
OPTION AND AWARD PROGRAMS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Under the 2007 Incentive
Compensation Plan and previously under the 1998 Incentive
Compensation Plan (the Plans), awards may be granted to employees
and other key individuals who perform services for the Company and
its participating subsidiaries. These awards may be in the form of
stock options, restricted stock awards or units (RSAs), portfolio
grants (PGs), and similar awards designed to meet the requirements
of non-U.S. jurisdictions.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">For the
Company&#x2019;s Plans, there were a total of 37&#xA0;million,
45&#xA0;million and 52&#xA0;million common shares unissued and
available for grant as of December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, as authorized by the Company&#x2019;s Board of
Directors and shareholders.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
granted stock option awards to its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in
November 2007 and January 2008 that have performance-based and
market-based conditions. These option awards are separately
described below and are excluded from the information and tables
presented in the following paragraphs.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">A summary of
stock option and RSA activity as of December&#xA0;31, 2009, and
changes during the year are presented below:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="42%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Shares in
thousands)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Stock Options</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">RSAs</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Shares</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Weighted<br />
Average<br />
Exercise<br />
Price</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Shares</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Weighted<br />
Average<br />
Grant<br />
Price</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Outstanding at
December&#xA0;31, 2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">83,674</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">40.94</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,108</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">51.49</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9,165</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>18.88</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>12,014</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>18.04</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Exercised/vested</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2,757</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>36.71</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2,680</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>50.89</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Forfeited</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2,060</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>40.58</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(760</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>31.82</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expired</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(8,328</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>35.19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Outstanding at
December&#xA0;31, 2009<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>79,694</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>39.18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15,682</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>26.90</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Options vested and expected
to vest at December&#xA0;31, 2009</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>78,271</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>39.31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Options exercisable at
December&#xA0;31, 2009<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>59,778</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>39.81</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the exercise prices for stock options outstanding and stock
options exercisable ranged from $12.06 to $60.95 and $24.66 to
$60.95, respectively.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company recognizes the
cost of employee stock awards granted in exchange for employee
services based on the grant-date fair value of the award, net of
expected forfeitures. Those costs are recognized ratably over the
vesting period.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">STOCK
OPTIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Each stock option has an
exercise price equal to the market price of the Company&#x2019;s
common stock on the date of grant and a contractual term of 10
years from the date of grant. Stock options generally vest
25&#xA0;percent&#xA0;per year beginning with the first anniversary
of the grant date.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The
weighted-average remaining contractual life and the aggregate
intrinsic value (the amount by which the fair value of the
Company&#x2019;s stock exceeds the exercise price of the option) of
the stock options outstanding, exercisable, and vested and expected
to vest as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="40%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="16%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="16%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="16%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Outstanding</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Exercisable</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Vested&#xA0;and<br />
Expected&#xA0;to<br />
Vest</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Weighted average remaining
contractual life (in years)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.1</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Aggregate intrinsic value
($ millions)</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">399</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">199</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">379</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The intrinsic value for
options exercised during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $11 million, $79
million and $463 million, respectively (based upon the fair value
of the Company&#x2019;s stock price at the date of exercise). Cash
received from the exercise of stock options in 2009, 2008 and 2007
was $83 million, $176 million and $852 million, respectively. The
tax benefit realized from income tax deductions from stock option
exercises, which was recorded in additional paid-in capital, in
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2 million, $21 million and $158 million,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The fair value
of each option is estimated on the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The following
weighted-average assumptions are used for grants issued in 2009,
2008 and 2007, the majority of which were granted in the beginning
of each year:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="66%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="10%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Dividend yield</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected
volatility</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>36</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Risk-free interest
rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected life of stock
option <i>(in years)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.8</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Weighted-average fair value
per option</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4.54</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8.24</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13.39</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The expected volatility is
based on weighted historical and implied volatilities of the
Company&#x2019;s common stock price. The expected life of the
options is based on historical data.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">STOCK
OPTIONS WITH PERFORMANCE-BASED AND MARKET-BASED
CONDITIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">On November&#xA0;30, 2007
and January&#xA0;31, 2008, the Company&#x2019;s CEO was granted in
the aggregate 2,750,000 of non-qualified stock option awards with
performance-based and market-based conditions. The exercise prices
per share are $58.98 and $49.13, respectively. Both awards have a
contractual term of 10 years and a vesting period of 6
years.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Performance-based Conditions</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Awards for 2,062,500
options have performance-based conditions with an aggregate grant
date fair value of approximately $33.8 million using a
Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. Compensation expense for
these awards will be recognized over the vesting period when it is
determined it is probable that the performance metrics will be
achieved. No compensation expense for these awards was recorded in
2009, 2008 or 2007.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Market-based Conditions</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Awards for 687,500 options
have market-based conditions with an aggregate grant date fair
value of approximately $10.5 million using a Monte Carlo valuation
model. The expected volatility is based on historical returns of
the Company&#x2019;s common stock price and the S&amp;P 500 Index.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data.
Compensation expense for the fair value of these awards is
recognized ratably over the vesting period irrespective of the
probability of the market metric being achieved. Total compensation
expense recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2.4 million, $2.4
million and $0.1 million, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">RESTRICTED
STOCK AWARDS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">RSAs are valued based on
the stock price on the date of grant and vest generally 25 percent
per year, beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date.
RSA holders receive non-forfeitable dividends or dividend
equivalents. The total fair value of shares vested during 2009,
2008 and 2007 was $44 million, $134 million and $203 million,
respectively (based upon the Company&#x2019;s stock price at the
vesting date).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The
weighted-average grant date fair value of RSAs granted in 2009,
2008 and 2007, is $18.04, $48.29 and $57.89,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">PORTFOLIO
GRANTS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In 2009, the Company
awarded cash-settled PGs to Executive Officers that earn value
based on the Company&#x2019;s financial performance and the
Company&#x2019;s total shareholder return versus the S&amp;P 500
Index. Awards in 2009 for all other PG recipients earn value based
on the Company&#x2019;s performance against financial and corporate
objectives. The 2009 awards vest fifty percent each year over two
one-year performance periods. All PGs awarded in 2008 and 2007 earn
value based on the Company&#x2019;s financial performance and the
Company&#x2019;s total shareholder return versus the S&amp;P 500
Index and cliff vest after a three-year performance period. PG
payouts are subject to CBC approval.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The PGs are
classified as liabilities and, therefore, the fair value is
determined at the date of grant and remeasured quarterly as part of
compensation expense over the performance period. Cash paid upon
vesting of PGs was $43 million, $59 million and $55 million in
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">SUMMARY OF
STOCK PLAN EXPENSE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The components of the
Company&#x2019;s stock-based compensation expense (net of
cancellations) are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Restricted stock
awards<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>135</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">141</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">135</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Stock options<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>55</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">73</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">78</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Portfolio grants and
other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">21</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">63</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Performance/market-based
stock options</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total stock based
compensation expense<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>202</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">237</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">276</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested
RSAs and options was $260 million and $74 million, respectively.
The unrecognized cost for RSAs and options will be recognized
ratably over the remaining vesting period. The weighted-average
remaining vesting period for RSAs and options is 2.44 years and
2.01 years, respectively.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The total income tax
benefit recognized in the income statement for stock-based
compensation arrangements in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $71 million,
$83 million and $96 million, respectively.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
855000000
74000000
1.54
1.54
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
18</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">EARNINGS
PER COMMON SHARE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The computations of basic
and diluted EPS for the years ended December&#xA0;31 were
as&#xA0;follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except per
share amounts)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Numerator:</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Basic and
diluted:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,137</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,871</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,126</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Preferred shares dividends,
accretion, and recognition of remaining unaccreted
dividends<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(306</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Earnings allocated to
participating share awards and other items</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(22</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(26</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loss from discontinued
operations, net of tax</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(172</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income attributable to
common shareholders</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,802</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,684</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,986</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Denominator:</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Basic: Weighted-average
common stock</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,168</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,154</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,173</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Add: Weighted-average stock
options and warrants<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Diluted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,171</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,156</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,193</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Basic EPS<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup>:</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations attributable to common shareholders</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.55</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.49</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loss from discontinued
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(0.01</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.14</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.09</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income attributable to
common shareholders</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.54</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.33</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.40</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Diluted EPS<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup>:</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations attributable to common shareholders</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.54</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.44</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loss from discontinued
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income attributable to
common shareholders</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.54</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.32</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.34</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes the accelerated
preferred dividend accretion of $212&#xA0;million for the year
ended December&#xA0;31, 2009, due to the repurchase of
$3.39&#xA0;billion of preferred shares on June&#xA0;17, 2009 issued
as part of the CPP. Also includes $74 million of preferred
dividends paid and $20 million of preferred dividend accretion
during 2009.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">For the years ended
December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the dilutive effect of
unexercised stock options excludes 71&#xA0;million, 45&#xA0;million
and 8&#xA0;million options, respectively, from the computation of
EPS because inclusion of the options would have been
anti-dilutive.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effective January&#xA0;1,
2009, guidance for determining whether instruments granted in
share-based payment transactions are participating securities
requires that restricted stock awards be included in the
computation of basic and diluted EPS pursuant to the two-class
method. Accordingly, the Company has retrospectively adjusted EPS
for 2008 and 2007.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Subordinated
Debentures, discussed in Note 10, would affect the EPS computation
only in the unlikely event the Company fails to achieve specified
performance measures related to the Company&#x2019;s tangible common
equity and consolidated net income. In that circumstance the
Company would reflect the additional common shares in the EPS
computation.</font></p>
</div>
7000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
3</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">FAIR
VALUES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As permitted under GAAP,
the Company adopted new fair value measurement and disclosure
requirements in two phases. The first phase, effective for the
Company January&#xA0;1, 2008, establishes requirements for fair
value measurements of financial assets and liabilities, and other
recurring fair value measurements reported or disclosed at fair
value. The second phase, effective for the Company January&#xA0;1,
2009, establishes requirements for all other assets and liabilities
recognized or disclosed at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Fair value is
defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date,
and is based on the Company&#x2019;s principal or most advantageous
market for the specific asset or liability.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">GAAP
established a three-level hierarchy of inputs to valuation
techniques used to measure fair value, defined as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Level 1 &#x2013; inputs that are quoted prices (unadjusted) for
identical assets or liabilities in active markets.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Level 2 &#x2013; inputs other than quoted prices included within
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either
directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the
asset or liability, including:</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="2%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">-</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Quoted prices for similar
assets or liabilities in active markets</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="2%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">-</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Quoted prices for identical
or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not
active</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="2%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">-</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Inputs other than quoted
prices that are observable for the asset or liability</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="2%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">-</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Inputs that are derived
principally from or corroborated by observable market data by
correlation or other means</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Level 3 &#x2013; inputs that are unobservable and reflect the
Company&#x2019;s own assumptions about the assumptions market
participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on
the best information available in the circumstances (e.g.
internally derived assumptions surrounding the timing and amount of
expected cash flows).</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As summarized in the table
below, the Company has financial assets and liabilities that are
measured at fair value on a recurring basis. For the year ended
December&#xA0;31, 2009, the Company did not have any significant
assets or liabilities that were measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to initial
recognition.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
provides a summary of the estimated fair values for the
Company&#x2019;s financial assets and financial liabilities measured
at fair value on a recurring basis by GAAP&#x2019;s valuation
hierarchy (as described above), as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="52%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="11" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="11" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Level&#xA0;1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Level&#xA0;2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Level&#xA0;3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Level&#xA0;1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Level&#xA0;2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Level&#xA0;3</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Assets</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investment
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20,738</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>530</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20,208</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11,782</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11,782</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Retained subordinated
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,599</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,599</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest-only
strip</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">32</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">32</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivatives<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>833</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>833</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,782</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,782</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total assets<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>25,190</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>530</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>21,041</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,619</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">14,340</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13,564</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">776</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Liabilities</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivatives<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>283</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>283</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">483</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">483</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>283</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>283</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">483</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">483</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Excludes retained
subordinated securities and interest-only strip.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GAAP permits the netting of
derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally
enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company and
its derivative counterparty. As of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
$33 million and $39 million, respectively, of derivative assets and
liabilities have been offset and presented net on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The Company&#x2019;s defined
benefit pension plan (the Plan) assets are included in the
determination of the Plan&#x2019;s net funded status, which is
reported in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Plan assets are also measured at fair value on an annual basis,
applying inputs in the fair value hierarchy as described above.
Refer to Note 21 for further details.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The table below presents a
reconciliation of all assets and liabilities measured at fair value
on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level
3) during the years ended December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
including realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in
earnings and accumulated other comprehensive (loss)
income:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="59%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investments-<br />
Retained<br />
Subordinated<br />
Securities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other&#xA0;Assets-<br />
Interest-Only<br />
Strip</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investments-<br />
Retained<br />
Subordinated<br />
Securities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other&#xA0;Assets-<br />
Interest-Only<br />
Strip</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Beginning fair value,
January&#xA0;1</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>32</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">78</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">223</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Increases in securitized
loans<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,760</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,250</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Unrealized and realized
gains (losses)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,095</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(12</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(584</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(191</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Ending fair value,
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,599</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">32</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents cost basis of
securitized loans.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Included in accumulated
other comprehensive (loss) income.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Included in securitization
income, net.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">VALUATION
TECHNIQUES USED IN MEASURING</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">FAIR
VALUE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">GAAP requires disclosure of
the estimated fair value of all financial instruments. A financial
instrument is defined as cash, evidence of an ownership in an
entity, or a contract between two entities to deliver cash or
another financial instrument or to exchange other financial
instruments. The disclosure requirements for the fair value of
financial instruments exclude leases, equity method investments,
affiliate investments, pension and benefit obligations, insurance
contracts and all non-financial instruments.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">For the
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis, summarized in the valuation hierarchy table above,
the Company applies the following valuation techniques to measure
fair value:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Investment
Securities (Excluding Retained Subordinated Securities and the
Interest-only Strip)</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">When available, quoted market prices in active markets are used
to determine fair value. Such investment securities are classified
within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">When quoted prices in an active market are not available, the
fair values for the Company&#x2019;s investment securities are
obtained primarily from pricing services engaged by the Company,
and the Company receives one price for each security. The fair
values provided by the pricing services are estimated by using
pricing models, where the inputs to those models are based on
observable market inputs. The inputs to the valuation techniques
applied by the pricing services vary depending on the type of
security being priced but are typically benchmark yields, benchmark
security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds, reported trades
and broker-dealer quotes, all with reasonable levels of
transparency. The pricing services did not apply any adjustments to
the pricing models used. In addition, the Company did not apply any
adjustments to prices received from the pricing services. The
Company classifies the prices obtained from the pricing services
within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because the underlying
inputs are directly observable from active markets or recent trades
of similar securities in inactive markets. However, the pricing
models used do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and
therefore differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are
modeled could result in different estimates of fair
value.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company has reaffirmed
its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing
services. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices provided
by its pricing services to test their reasonableness by comparing
their prices to valuations from different pricing sources as well
as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold
securities. Refer to Note 6 for additional fair value
information.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Retained
Subordinated Securities</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company determines the
fair value of its retained subordinated securities using discounted
cash flow models. The discount rate used is based on an interest
rate curve that is observable in the marketplace plus an
unobservable credit spread commensurate with the risk of these
securities and similar financial instruments. The Company
classifies such securities in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy
because the applicable credit spreads are not observable due to the
illiquidity in the market with respect to these securities and
similar financial instruments. Refer to Note 7 for additional fair
value information.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Interest-only Strip</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The fair value of the
interest-only strip is the present value of estimated future
positive excess spread expected to be generated by the securitized
loans over the estimated remaining life of those loans. Management
utilizes certain estimates and assumptions to determine the fair
value of the interest-only strip asset, including estimates for
finance charge yield, credit losses, London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) (which determines future certificate interest costs),
monthly payment rate and discount rate. On a quarterly basis, the
Company compares the assumptions it uses in calculating the fair
value of its interest-only strip to observable market data when
available, and to historical trends. The interest-only strip is
classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to the
significance of the unobservable inputs used in valuing this asset.
Refer to Note 7 for additional fair value information.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Derivative
Financial Instruments</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The fair value of the
Company&#x2019;s derivative financial instruments, which could be
assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, is
estimated by using either a third-party valuation service that uses
proprietary pricing models, or by using internal pricing models,
neither of which contain a high level of subjectivity as the
valuation techniques used do not require significant judgment and
inputs to those models are readily observable from actively quoted
markets. In each case, the valuation models used are consistently
applied and reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives,
including the period of maturity, and market-based parameters such
as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity indices or
prices, and volatility.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Credit
valuation adjustments are necessary when the market parameters (for
example, a benchmark curve) used to value derivatives are not
indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its
counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit risk
by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the current
exposure. Refer to Note 12 for additional fair value
information.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
discloses the estimated fair values for the Company&#x2019;s
financial assets and financial liabilities not carried at fair
value as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="48%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="11%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="11%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="11%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="11%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Rounded to nearest
billion)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Carrying<br />
Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair<br />
Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Carrying<br />
Value</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair<br />
Value</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Financial
Assets:</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Assets for which carrying
values equal or approximate fair value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>57</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>57</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">58</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">58</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loans</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">41</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">41</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Financial
Liabilities:</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Liabilities for which
carrying values equal or approximate fair value</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>33</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>33</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">37</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">37</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Certificates of
deposit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Long-term debt</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>52</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>54</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">60</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">56</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The fair values of these
financial instruments are estimates based upon market conditions
and perceived risks as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, and
require management judgment. These figures may not be indicative of
their future fair values. The fair value of the Company cannot be
estimated by aggregating the amounts presented.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following
methods were used to determine estimated fair values:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">FINANCIAL
ASSETS FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR
VALUE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Financial assets for which
carrying values equal or approximate fair value include cash and
cash equivalents, cardmember receivables, accrued interest and
certain other assets. For these assets, the carrying values
approximate fair value because they are short-term in duration or
variable rate in nature.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">FINANCIAL
ASSETS CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Loans</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Loans are recorded at
historical cost, less reserves, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In estimating the fair value for the Company&#x2019;s loans, the
principal market is assumed to be the securitization market, and
the Company uses the hypothetical securitization price to determine
the fair value of the portfolio. The securitization price is
estimated from the assumed proceeds of the hypothetical
securitization in the current market, adjusted for securitization
uncertainties such as market conditions and liquidity.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">FINANCIAL
LIABILITIES FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR
VALUE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Financial liabilities for
which carrying values equal or approximate fair value include
accrued interest, customer deposits (excluding certificates of
deposit, which are described further below), Travelers Cheques
outstanding, short-term borrowings and certain other liabilities
for which the carrying values approximate fair value because they
are short-term in duration, variable rate in nature, or have no
defined maturity.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">FINANCIAL
LIABILITIES CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Certificates of Deposit</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Certificates of deposit
(CDs) are recorded at their historical issuance cost on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is estimated using a
discounted cash flow methodology based on the Company&#x2019;s
current borrowing rates for similar types of CDs.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Long-term
Debt</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Long-term debt is recorded
at historical issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Fair value is estimated using either quoted market prices or
discounted cash flows based on the Company&#x2019;s current
borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing.</font></p>
</div>
1778000000
2137000000
1.55
1.54
-7000000
-0.01
0.00
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
17</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">INCOME
TAXES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The components of income
tax expense included in the Consolidated Statements of Income were
as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="63%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="10%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Current income tax expense
(benefit):</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. federal</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>661</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">735</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,631</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. state and
local</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>40</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(28</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">246</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-U.S.</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>295</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">352</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">408</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total current income tax
expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>996</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,059</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,285</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred income tax
(benefit) expense:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. federal</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(231</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(150</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(496</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. state and
local</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(84</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(22</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-U.S.</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(115</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(199</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total deferred income tax
benefit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(292</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(349</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(717</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total income tax expense on
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>704</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">710</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,568</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income tax expense
(benefit) from discontinued operations</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(49</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">A reconciliation of the
U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company&#x2019;s
actual income tax rate for the years ended December&#xA0;31 on
continuing operations was as&#xA0;follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="71%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Combined tax at U.S.
statutory federal income tax rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>35.0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">35.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">35.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Increase (Decrease) in
taxes resulting from:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tax-exempt
income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(4.6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(3.9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2.8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">State and local income
taxes, net of federal benefit</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2.7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-U.S. subsidiaries
earnings</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(6.8</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(8.4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(5.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tax settlements<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1.4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(5.5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2.2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">All other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(0.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Actual tax rates</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24.8</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19.8</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27.5</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Relates to the resolution
of tax matters in various jurisdictions.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
records a deferred income tax (benefit) provision when there are
differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial
reporting and for income tax return purposes. These temporary
differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years
and are measured using the tax rates and laws that will be in
effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The
significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of
December&#xA0;31 are reflected in the following table:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="75%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred tax
assets:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reserves not yet deducted
for tax purposes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,495</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,559</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Employee compensation and
benefits</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>717</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">680</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net unrealized securities
losses</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">458</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>114</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">246</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross deferred tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,326</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,943</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Valuation
allowance</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred tax assets after
valuation allowance</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,266</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,874</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred tax
liabilities:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Intangibles and fixed
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>744</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">713</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>49</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">531</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Asset
securitizations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>70</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">84</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net unrealized securities
gains</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>291</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>133</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">76</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross deferred tax
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,287</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,404</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net deferred tax
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,979</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,470</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">A valuation allowance is
established when management determines that it is more likely than
not that all or some portion of the benefit of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The valuation allowances as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008 are associated with non-U.S.
operations and relate to all of the Company&#x2019;s net operating
losses and other deferred tax assets.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Accumulated
earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, which totaled
approximately $6.6 billion as of December&#xA0;31, 2009, are
intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States.
The Company does not provide for federal income taxes on foreign
earnings intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United
States. Accordingly, federal taxes, which would have aggregated
approximately $1.8&#xA0;billion as of December&#xA0;31, 2009, have
not been provided on those earnings.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Net income
taxes paid by the Company (including amounts related to
discontinued operations) during 2009, 2008 and 2007, were
approximately $0.4 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion,
respectively. These amounts include estimated tax payments and cash
settlements relating to prior tax years.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company,
its wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, and certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. The
Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its
states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in
which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the
manner in which they apply to the taxpayer&#x2019;s facts is
sometimes open to interpretation. Given these inherent
complexities, the Company must make judgments in assessing the
likelihood that a tax position will be sustained upon examination
by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the tax
position. A tax position is recognized only when, based on
management&#x2019;s judgment regarding the application of income tax
laws, it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
sustained upon examination. The amount of benefit recognized for
financial reporting purposes is based on management&#x2019;s best
judgment of the most likely outcome resulting from examination
given the facts, circumstances and information available at the
reporting date. The Company adjusts the level of unrecognized tax
benefits when there is new information available to assess the
likelihood of the outcome.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company is
under continuous examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
and tax authorities in other countries and states in which the
Company has significant business operations. The tax years under
examination and open for examination vary by jurisdiction. In
June&#xA0;2008, the IRS completed its field examination of the
Company&#x2019;s federal tax returns for the years 1997 through
2002.&#xA0;In July 2009, the IRS completed its field examination of
the Company&#x2019;s federal tax returns for the years 2003 and
2004. However, all of these years continue to remain open as a
consequence of certain issues under appeal. The Company is
currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2005 through
2007.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
presents changes in the unrecognized tax benefits:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance,
January&#xA0;1</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,176</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,112</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,143</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Increases:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Current year tax
positions</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>39</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">81</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">165</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tax positions related to
prior years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>161</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">409</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">95</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effects of foreign currency
translations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Decreases:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tax positions related to
prior years</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(197</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(208</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(164</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Settlements with tax
authorities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(97</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(213</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(126</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Lapse of statute of
limitations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effects of foreign currency
translations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance,
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,081</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,176</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,112</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Included in the $1.1
billion, $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of unrecognized tax benefits
at December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are
approximately $480 million, $452&#xA0;million and $597 million,
respectively that, if recognized, would favorably affect the
effective tax rate in a future period. These benefits primarily
relate to the Company&#x2019;s gross permanent benefits and
corresponding foreign tax credits and federal tax
effects.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
believes it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax
benefits could decrease within the next 12&#xA0;months by as much
as $580 million principally as a result of potential resolutions of
prior years&#x2019; tax items with various taxing authorities. The
prior years&#x2019; tax items include unrecognized tax benefits
relating to the timing of recognition of certain gross income, the
deductibility of certain expenses or losses, and the attribution of
taxable income to a particular jurisdiction or jurisdictions. Of
the $580 million of unrecognized tax benefits, approximately $318
million are temporary differences that, if recognized, would only
impact the effective rate due to net interest assessments and state
tax rate differentials. With respect to the remaining decrease of
$262 million, it is not possible to quantify the impact that the
decrease could have on the effective tax rate and net income due to
the inherent complexities and the number of tax years open for
examination in multiple jurisdictions.&#xA0;Resolution of the prior
years&#x2019; items that comprise this remaining amount could have
an impact on the effective tax rate and on net income, either
favorably (principally as a result of settlements that are less
than the liability for unrecognized tax benefits) or unfavorably
(if such settlements exceed the liability for unrecognized tax
benefits).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Interest and
penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits are reported in
income tax provision. During the years ended December&#xA0;31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized approximately $1
million, $60 million and $17 million, respectively, of interest and
penalties. The Company has approximately $282 million and $285
million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.</font></p>
</div>
704000000
-23000000
11037000000
-526000000
730000000
1935000000
0
5331000000
804000000
4468000000
2207000000
425000000
37000000
59000000
3124000000
5080000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
4</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">ACCOUNTS
RECEIVABLE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">CARDMEMBER
RECEIVABLES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Cardmember receivables
represent amounts due from charge card customers. These receivables
are recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a point-of-sale
transaction with a merchant. Cardmember receivable balances are
presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for
losses, discussed below, and includes principal and any related
accrued fees.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">RESERVES
FOR LOSSES &#x2013; CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Reserves for losses
relating to cardmember receivables represent management&#x2019;s
best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company&#x2019;s
outstanding portfolio of receivables. Management&#x2019;s evaluation
process requires certain estimates and judgments. Reserves for
these losses are primarily based upon models that analyze portfolio
performance and reflect management&#x2019;s judgment regarding
overall reserve adequacy. The analytic models take into account
several factors, including average losses and recoveries over an
appropriate historical period. Management considers whether to
adjust the analytic models for specific factors such as increased
risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives
on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on
factors such as tenure, industry or geographic regions. In
addition, management adjusts the reserves for losses for other
external environmental factors such as leading economic and market
indicators, and the legal and regulatory environment. Generally,
due to the short-term nature of cardmember receivables, the impact
of the other external environmental factors on the inherent losses
within the cardmember receivable portfolio is not significant. As
part of this evaluation process, management also considers various
reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of
past-due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember
receivables and net write-off coverage.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Cardmember
receivables balances are written off when management deems amounts
to be uncollectible and is generally determined by the number of
days past due. Cardmember receivables within the U.S. Card Services
(USCS) segment are generally written off when 180 days past due and
cardmember receivables within the International Card Services (ICS)
and Global Commercial Services (GCS) segments are generally written
off when 360 days past billing. Receivables in bankruptcy or owed
by deceased individuals are written off upon notification.
Recoveries are recognized on a cash basis.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Prior to the
fourth quarter of 2008, cardmember receivables in the USCS segment
were written off when 360 days past billing. During 2008,
consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance, the Company
modified its write-off methodology to write off cardmember
receivables in the USCS segment when 180 days past due. Net
cardmember receivables write-offs in 2008 included approximately
$341 million resulting from this change in write-off
methodology.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The impact of
this change to the provision for charge card losses was not
material.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Accounts receivable as of
December&#xA0;31 consisted of:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. Card
Services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>17,750</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">17,822</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">International Card
Services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,944</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,582</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Global Commercial
Services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9,844</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9,397</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Global Network&#xA0;&amp;
Merchant Services<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>205</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">187</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember receivables
gross<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>33,743</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">32,988</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less: Cardmember reserve
for losses</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>546</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">810</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember receivables,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>33,197</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">32,178</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other receivables,
net<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,007</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,393</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes receivables
primarily related to the Company&#x2019;s business partners and
International Currency Card portfolios.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes approximately
$10.4 billion and $9.9 billion of cardmember receivables outside
the United States as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other receivables primarily
represent amounts due from the Company&#x2019;s travel customers,
third party issuing partners, accrued interest on investments,
receivables acquired in connection with the purchase of CPS,
Company cash held in an off-balance sheet securitization trust for
daily settlement requirements and other receivables due to the
Company in the ordinary course of business.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
presents changes in the cardmember receivables reserve for losses
for years ended December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="10%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance,
January&#xA0;1</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>810</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,149</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">981</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Additions:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember receivables
provision<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>857</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,363</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,140</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deductions:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember receivables net
write-offs<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1,131</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,552</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(907</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember receivables
other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(150</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(65</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance,
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>546</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">810</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,149</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">For cardmember receivables,
represents provision for losses and write-offs consisting of
principal (resulting from authorized and unauthorized transactions)
and fee components, less recoveries of $349 million, $187 million
and $203 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">For December&#xA0;31, 2008,
these amounts primarily include adjustments related to the
reclassification of waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember
receivable. This amount, for all periods, includes foreign currency
translation adjustments.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Refer to Note 5 for
discussion on pledged cardmember receivables as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008. Also refer to Note 5 for impaired
cardmember receivables as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and
2008.</font></p>
</div>
-4647000000
-6752000000
6384000000
2130000000
16369000000
21399000000
2087000000
2841000000
-10000000
-354000000
52000000
1206000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
19</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">DETAILS OF
CERTAIN CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME LINES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following is a detail
of other commissions and fees for the years ended
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign currency conversion
revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>672</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">755</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">718</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Delinquency fees</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>526</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">852</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">879</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Service fees</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>335</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">459</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">513</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>245</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">241</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">307</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total other commissions and
fees</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,778</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,307</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,417</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following is a detail
of other revenues for the years ended December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Insurance premium
revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>293</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">326</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">349</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Publishing
revenue</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>224</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">327</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">345</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gain on investment
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>225</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,345</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,492</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,048</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total other
revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,087</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,157</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,751</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Other revenues includes
insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other
insurance programs, publishing revenues, revenues arising from
contracts with Global Network Services (GNS) partners including
royalties and signing fees, and other miscellaneous revenue and
fees.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following is a detail
of marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services for the
years ended December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Marketing and
promotion</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,914</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,430</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,562</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember
rewards</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,036</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,389</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,777</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember
services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>517</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">542</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">478</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total marketing, promotion,
rewards and cardmember services</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,467</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,361</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,817</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Marketing and promotion
expense includes advertising costs, which are expensed in the year
in which the advertising first takes place. Cardmember rewards
expense includes the costs of rewards programs (including
Membership Rewards, discussed in Note 11). Cardmember services
expense includes protection plans and complimentary services
provided to cardmembers.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following is a detail
of other, net expense for the years ended
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="61%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Occupancy and
equipment</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,619</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,641</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,436</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Communications</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>414</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">466</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">461</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">MasterCard and Visa
settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(852</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(571</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,056</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,233</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,586</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,386</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total other, net
expense</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,414</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,122</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,227</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes (i)&#xA0;a $135
million benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2009 representing
the correction of an error related to the accounting for cumulative
translation adjustments associated with a net investment in foreign
subsidiaries (the impact of the incorrect accounting was not
material to any of the quarterly or annual periods in which it
occurred and resulted in a $60 million overstatement of pretax
income in the second quarter of 2009, a $135 million understatement
of pretax income in the fourth quarter of 2008 and minimal amounts
for all other periods affected dating back to the third quarter of
2007 when the incorrect accounting originated), (ii)&#xA0;a $45
million benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2009 resulting
from the change in fair value of certain forward exchange
contracts, and (iii)&#xA0;lower travel and entertainment and other
expenses due to the Company&#x2019;s reengineering activities. Also
includes a $59 million benefit recorded in the second quarter of
2009 representing the correction of an error related to prior
periods from the completion of certain account reconciliations.
Based on the items described above, the aggregate impact from the
correction of errors in accounting for the 12 months ended
December&#xA0;31, 2009 resulted in a $254 million overstatement of
pretax income.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Other, net expense includes
general operating expenses, gains (losses) on sale of assets or
businesses not classified as discontinued operations, and
litigation and insurance costs or settlements.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
11</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">OTHER
LIABILITIES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following is a summary
of other liabilities as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Membership Rewards
liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,303</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,643</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Employee-related
liabilities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,877</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,026</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Rebate accruals<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,309</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,255</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred charge card fees,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,034</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,041</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,287</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,627</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13,810</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">14,592</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Employee-related
liabilities include employee benefit plan obligations and incentive
compensation.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Rebate accruals include
payments to third-party card issuing partners and cash-back reward
costs.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other includes accruals for
general operating expenses, advertising and promotion, derivatives,
restructuring and reengineering reserves, and minority interest in
subsidiaries.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Membership
Rewards</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Membership Rewards
program allows enrolled cardmembers to earn points that can be
redeemed for a broad range of rewards, including travel,
entertainment, retail certificates, and merchandise. The Company
establishes balance sheet liabilities which represent the estimated
cost of points earned to date that are ultimately expected to be
redeemed. These liabilities reflect management&#x2019;s best
estimate of future redemption costs. An ultimate redemption rate
and weighted average cost per point are key factors used to
approximate the Membership Reward liability. Management uses models
to estimate ultimate redemption rates based on historical
redemption data, card product type, year of program enrollment,
enrollment tenure and card spend levels. The weighted-average cost
per point is determined using actual redemptions during the
previous 12 months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in
redemption costs.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The provision
for the cost of Membership Rewards points is included in marketing,
promotion, rewards and cardmember services. The Company continually
evaluates its reserve methodology and assumptions based on
developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed,
contract changes, and other factors.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">DEFERRED
CHARGE CARD FEES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The carrying amount of
deferred charge card and other fees, net of direct acquisition
costs and reserves for membership cancellations as of
December&#xA0;31 were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="75%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred charge card and
other fees<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,213</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,233</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred direct acquisition
costs</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(78</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reserves for membership
cancellations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(119</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(114</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred charge card fees
and other, net of direct acquisition costs and reserves</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,034</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,041</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes deferred fees for
Membership Reward program participants.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
2414000000
-6154000000
0
340000000
924000000
0
13719000000
772000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
21</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">RETIREMENT
PLANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company sponsors
defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, and
other postretirement benefit plans for its employees. The following
table provides a summary of the total cost related to these plans
as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Defined benefit pension
plan cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Defined contribution plan
cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>118</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">211</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">173</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other postretirement
benefit plan cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">31</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net periodic benefit
cost</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>168</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">251</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">232</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The expenses in the above
table are recorded in salaries and employee benefits in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">DEFINED
BENEFIT PENSION PLANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s
significant defined benefit pension plans cover certain employees
in the United States and United Kingdom. Most employees outside the
United States and United Kingdom are covered by local retirement
plans, some of which are funded, while other employees receive
payments at the time of retirement or termination under applicable
labor laws or agreements. The Company complies with the minimum
funding requirements in all countries.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
sponsors the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan (the Plan) for
eligible employees in the United States. The Plan is a
noncontributory defined benefit plan and a tax-qualified retirement
plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended (ERISA). Effective July&#xA0;1, 2007, the Plan was
closed to new entrants and existing participants no longer accrue
future benefits. The Company funds retirement costs through a trust
and complies with the applicable minimum funding requirements
specified by ERISA, as revised under the Pension Protection Act
(PPA), effective October&#xA0;1, 2008. The funded status of the
Plan on an ERISA basis as of October&#xA0;1, 2009 (applicable plan
year) is 106 percent. The PPA calculation assumptions are specific
to ERISA and differ from the calculation of the net funded status
for GAAP purposes (see Net Funded Status as of December&#xA0;31,
2009 in the table below).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Plan is a
cash balance plan and employees&#x2019; accrued benefits are based
on notional account balances, which are maintained for each
individual. Employees&#x2019; balances are credited daily with
interest at a fixed-rate that is updated each January&#xA0;1 and is
based on the average of the daily five-year U.S. Treasury Note
yields for the previous October&#xA0;1 through November&#xA0;30.
The interest rate varies from a minimum of 5 percent to a maximum
equal to the lesser of (i)&#xA0;10 percent or (ii)&#xA0;the
applicable interest rate set forth in the Plan. Employees and their
beneficiaries have the option to receive annuity payments upon
retirement or a lump-sum payout at vested termination, death,
disability or retirement.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
also sponsors an unfunded non-qualified Supplemental Retirement
Plan (the SRP) for employees compensated above a certain level to
supplement their pension benefits that are limited by the Internal
Revenue Code. The SRP was also amended as of July&#xA0;1, 2007, and
its terms generally parallel those of the Plan, except that the
definition of compensation and payment options differ.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">For each plan,
the net funded status is defined by GAAP governing retirement
benefits as the difference between the fair value of plan assets
and the respective plan&#x2019;s projected benefit obligation. The
projected benefit obligation represents a liability based on the
plan participants&#x2019; service-to-date and their expected future
compensation at their projected retirement date. Changes in the
funded status are recorded as unamortized gains and losses, which
are recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the
periods in which they occur along with prior service
cost.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the net funded status related to the defined benefit pension
plans was underfunded by $406 million, as shown in the following
table:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><i>Net Funded
Status</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="78%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net funded status,
beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(441</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">113</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Increase (Decrease) in fair
value of plan assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>296</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(900</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(Increase) Decrease in
projected benefit obligation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(261</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">346</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>35</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(554</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net funded status, end of
year</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(406</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(441</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The net funded
status amounts at December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008 are recognized in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other liabilities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Plan Assets
and Obligations</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following tables
provide a reconciliation of changes in the fair value of plan
assets and projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit
pension plans:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><i>Reconciliation of Change
in Fair Value of Plan Assets</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="75%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair value of plan assets,
beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,693</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,593</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effect of transition to
December&#xA0;31st measurement date</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Actual return on plan
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>290</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(461</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Employer
contributions</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>74</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Benefits paid</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(61</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(81</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(88</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign currency exchange
rate changes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>72</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(321</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>296</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(900</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair value of plan assets,
end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,989</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,693</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><i>Reconciliation of Change
in Projected Benefit Obligation</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="75%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Projected benefit
obligation, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,134</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,480</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effect of transition to
December&#xA0;31st measurement date</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Service cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">23</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>127</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">136</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Benefits paid</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(61</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Actuarial loss
(gain)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>189</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Plan amendments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(81</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(88</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Curtailments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Foreign currency exchange
rate changes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(297</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>261</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(346</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Projected benefit
obligation, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,395</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,134</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Loss</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
provides the amounts comprising accumulated other comprehensive
loss, which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic
pension benefit cost as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="78%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net actuarial
loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>655</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">650</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net prior service
cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total, pretax
effect</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>652</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">647</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tax impact</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(219</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(215</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total, net of
taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>433</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">432</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The estimated portion of
the net actuarial loss and net prior service cost that is expected
to be recognized as a component of net periodic pension benefit
cost in 2010 is $22 million and nil, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table lists
the amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss in
2009:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="89%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net actuarial
loss:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassified to earnings
from equity<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Losses in current
year<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>34</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net actuarial loss,
pretax</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amortization of actuarial
losses and recognition of losses related to lump sum
settlements.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferral of actuarial
losses and curtailment gains.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Benefit
Obligations</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The accumulated benefit
obligation in a defined benefit pension plan is the present value
of benefits earned to date by plan participants computed based on
current compensation levels as contrasted to the projected benefit
obligation, which is the present value of benefits earned to date
by plan participants based on their expected future compensation at
their projected retirement date.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The accumulated and
projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit pension plans
are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="74%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accumulated benefit
obligation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,327</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,057</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Projected benefit
obligation</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,395</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,134</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The accumulated benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with
accumulated benefit obligation that exceeds the fair value of plan
assets are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="74%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accumulated benefit
obligation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,369</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,056</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair value of plan
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,020</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,691</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The projected benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with
projected benefit obligation that exceeds the fair value of plan
assets are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="74%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Projected benefit
obligation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,395</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,134</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair value of plan
assets</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,989</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,693</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Net
Periodic Pension Benefit Cost</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The components of the net
periodic pension benefit cost for all defined benefit pension plans
as of December&#xA0;31 are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="65%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="11%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Service cost<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">23</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">89</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest cost<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>127</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">136</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">126</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected return on plan
assets<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(146</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(169</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(155</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amortization of prior
service costs<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Recognized net actuarial
loss<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(e)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">35</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Settlements losses
(gains)<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(f)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>19</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Curtailment (gains)
losses<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(g)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net periodic pension
benefit cost</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>21</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Current value of benefits
earned by employees during the period.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated interest incurred
on the outstanding projected benefit obligation during the
period.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected return on the
market related value of plan assets.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Costs that result from plan
amendments, which are amortized over the expected future service
period of the employees impacted.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(e)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amortization of the
accumulated losses which exceed 10 percent of the greater of the
projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan
assets.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(f)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Recognition of the
actuarial losses resulting from lump sum settlements of the benefit
obligation.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(g)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gains resulting from a
reduction in the benefit obligation due to a decrease in the
expected years of future service of current plan
participants.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Assumptions</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The weighted-average
assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension obligations
were:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="10%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discount rates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Rates of increase in
compensation levels</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3.6</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.9</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The weighted-average
assumptions used to determine net periodic pension benefit costs
were:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="71%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="10%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discount rates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Rates of increase in
compensation levels</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3.9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected long-term rates of
return on assets</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6.9</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7.6</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7.8</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company assumes a
long-term rate of return on assets on a weighted-average basis. In
developing this assumption, management evaluates historical returns
on plan assets as well as benchmark information including
projections of asset class returns and long-term
inflation.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The discount
rate assumptions for the Company&#x2019;s significant defined
benefit plans are determined using a model consisting of bond
portfolios that match the cash flows of the plan&#x2019;s projected
benefit payments based on the plan participants&#x2019; service to
date and their expected future compensation. Use of the rate
produced by this model generates a projected benefit obligation
that equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality
zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing
and amount of expected future benefit payments.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Asset
Allocation and Fair Value</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Benefit Plans
Investment Committee (BPIC) is appointed by the Compensation and
Benefits Committee of the Company&#x2019;s Board of Directors and
has the responsibility of reviewing and approving the investment
policies related to plan assets for the Company&#x2019;s defined
benefit pension plans; evaluating the performance of the
investments in accordance with the investment policy; reviewing the
investment objectives, risk, characteristics, expenses and
historical performance; and selecting and evaluating the investment
managers. The BPIC typically meets quarterly to review the
performance of the various investment managers and service
providers as well as other investment related matters. The
Company&#x2019;s significant defined benefit pension plans have
investment policies, which prescribe targets for the amount of
assets that can be invested in a security class in order to
mitigate the detrimental impact of adverse or unexpected results
with respect to any individual security class on the overall
portfolio. The portfolios are diversified by asset type, risk
characteristics and concentration of investments.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Effective
January&#xA0;1, 2009, the Company adopted new GAAP fair value
disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension plan assets
(the new expanded disclosures are not applicable for plan assets at
December&#xA0;31, 2008 when the asset allocation was 48 percent
equity securities, 43 percent fixed income securities, and 9
percent other investments). Refer to Note 3 for a discussion
related to valuation techniques used to measure fair value,
including a description of the three-level fair value hierarchy of
inputs.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the target allocation and categorization of all defined
benefit pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring
basis by GAAP&#x2019;s valuation hierarchy as of December&#xA0;31,
2009.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 3px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="48%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>Asset
Category</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(millions, except
percentages)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Target<br />
Allocation&#xA0;2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Quoted&#xA0;Prices&#xA0;in<br />
Active Markets<br />
for Identical<br />
Assets</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(Level
1)</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Significant<br />
Observable<br />
Inputs<br />
(Level 2)</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Significant<br />
Unobservable<br />
Inputs<br />
(Level&#xA0;3)</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. equity
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>334</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>334</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">International equity
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>626</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>626</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. fixed income
securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>553</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>553</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">International fixed income
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>301</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>301</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balanced funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>62</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>62</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Private equity</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>52</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>52</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Real estate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>38</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>38</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Hedge funds</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>8</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>8</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>98</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>98</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>100</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,989</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>975</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>916</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>98</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">A significant portion of
international investments are in U.K. companies and U.K. government
and agency securities.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Measured at reported net
asset value in accordance with GAAP adopted in 2009.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The fair value measurement
of all defined benefit pension plan assets using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) changed during 2009 due to the
following:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="60%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Private&#xA0;Equity</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Real&#xA0;Estate</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Hedge&#xA0;Funds</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Beginning fair value,
January&#xA0;1, 2009</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>187</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$64</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$63</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Actual net losses on plan
assets:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Held at the end of the
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(38</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(16)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(19)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(3)</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Sold during the
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(9)</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total net losses</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(48</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(16)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(20)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(12)</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net&#xA0;purchases, sales
and settlements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(41</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(43)</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net decrease</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(89</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(12)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(22)</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(55)</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Ending fair value,
December&#xA0;31, 2009</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>98</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$52</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$38</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$8</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Benefit
Payments</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s defined
benefit pension plans expect to make benefit payments to retirees
as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="40%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2012</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2013</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2014</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2015<br />
&#x2013;2019</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected
payments</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>132</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>147</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>152</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>152</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>171</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>903</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In addition, the Company
expects to contribute $64 million to its defined benefit pension
plans in 2010.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company sponsors
defined contribution retirement plans, the principal plan being the
Retirement Savings Plan (RSP), a 401(k) savings plan with a profit
sharing component. The RSP is a tax-qualified retirement plan
subject to ERISA and covers most employees in the U. S. Under the
terms of the RSP, employees have the option of investing up to 10
percent of their contributions in the American Express Company
Stock Fund, which invests primarily in the Company&#x2019;s common
stock, through accumulated payroll deductions. Employees are
restricted from transferring balances into this fund if the balance
has reached 10 percent of the employee&#x2019;s total account
balance. The RSP held 13&#xA0;million shares of American Express
Common Stock at both December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, beneficially
for employees. Effective July&#xA0;1, 2007, the Company matches
employee contributions to the plan up to a maximum of 5 percent of
total pay. Additional annual conversion contributions of up to 8
percent of total pay are provided into the RSP for eligible
employees who were hired before April&#xA0;1, 2007. The Company
also sponsors an RSP SRP, which is an unfunded non-qualified plan
for employees whose RSP benefits are limited by the Internal
Revenue Code and its terms generally parallel those of the RSP,
except that the definition of compensation and payment options
differ.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The total
expense for all defined contribution retirement plans globally was
$118 million, $211 million and $173 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. The decrease in defined contribution expense in 2009
primarily reflects the Company&#x2019;s temporary suspension of the
employer match conversion contributions (reinstated prospectively
in January 2010).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">OTHER
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company sponsors
unfunded other postretirement benefit plans that provide health
care and life insurance to certain retired U.S.
employees.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Loss</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
provides the amounts comprising accumulated other comprehensive
loss which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic
benefit cost as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net actuarial
loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">47</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net prior service
cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total, pretax
effect</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">45</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tax impact</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(18</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total, net of
taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>36</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The estimated portion of
the net actuarial loss above that is expected to be recognized as a
component of net periodic benefit cost in 2010 is $2
million.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table lists
the amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss in
2009:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="89%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net actuarial
loss:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassified to earnings
from equity</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Losses in current
year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net actuarial
loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net prior service
cost:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reclassified to earnings
from equity</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net prior service
cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total, pretax</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Benefit
Obligations</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The projected benefit
obligation represents a liability based upon estimated future
medical and other benefits to be provided to retirees.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
provides a reconciliation of the changes in the projected benefit
obligation:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><i>Reconciliation of Change
in Projected Benefit Obligation</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Projected benefit
obligation, beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>295</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">312</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Effect of transition to
December&#xA0;31st measurement date</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Service cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Benefits paid</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Actuarial loss
(gain)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>16</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Curtailment loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net change</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>29</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Projected benefit
obligation, end of year</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>324</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">295</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The plans are unfunded and
the obligations as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008 are
recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other
liabilities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Net
Periodic Benefit Cost</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">GAAP provides for the
delayed recognition of the net actuarial loss and the net prior
service credit remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The components of the net
periodic benefit cost for all other postretirement benefit plans as
of December&#xA0;31 are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="71%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Service cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amortization of prior
service cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Recognized net actuarial
loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Curtailment loss</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net periodic benefit
cost</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>29</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">31</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">ASSUMPTIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The weighted-average
assumptions used to determine benefit obligations were:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="10%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discount rates</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Health care cost increase
rate:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Following year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>8.0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8.5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Decreasing to the year
2016</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.0</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.0</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The weighted-average
discount rate used to determine net periodic benefit cost was 6.0
percent, 6.1 percent and 5.7 percent in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The discount
rate assumption for the Company&#x2019;s unfunded other
postretirement benefit plans is determined by using a model
consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the
plan&#x2019;s projected benefit payments. Use of the rate produced
by this model generates a projected benefit obligation that equals
the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon
bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing and amount
of expected future benefit payments.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">A one percentage-point
change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the
following effects:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="57%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">One<br />
percentage-<br />
point&#xA0;increase</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="6" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">One<br />
percentage-<br />
point&#xA0;decrease</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Increase (Decrease) on
benefits earned and interest cost for U.S. plans</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Increase (Decrease) on
postretirement benefit obligation for U.S. plans</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">15</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(14</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(13</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Benefit
Payments</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s other
postretirement benefit plans expect to make benefit payments as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="38%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2012</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2013</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2014</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2015</font><br />
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2013;2019</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected
payments</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>25</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>26</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>132</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In addition, the Company
expects to contribute $24 million to its other postretirement
benefit plans in&#xA0;2010.</font></p>
</div>
614000000
6697000000
3389000000
2900000000
2930000000
50000000
2244000000
4266000000
5313000000
190000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
27</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">QUARTERLY
FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="49%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except per
share amounts)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="13" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="14" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Quarters Ended</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>12/31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9/30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6/30</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3/31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12/31</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9/30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6/30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3/31</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,489</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,016</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6,092</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,926</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6,506</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,164</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,455</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,240</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax income from
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>961</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>918</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>418</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>544</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">268</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,078</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">774</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,461</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>710</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>642</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>342</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>443</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">306</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">861</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">660</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,044</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income (Loss) from
discontinued operations, net of tax</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(66</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(46</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(53</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>716</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>640</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>337</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>437</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">240</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">815</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">653</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">991</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Earnings Per Common Share
&#x2014; Basic:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.54</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.09</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.32</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.26</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.74</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.57</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.90</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discontinued
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.01</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(0.01</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.05</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.04</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.01</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.05</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.54</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.09</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.21</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.70</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Earnings Per Common Share
&#x2014; Diluted:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.59</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.54</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.09</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.32</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.26</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.74</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.89</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discontinued
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.01</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(0.01</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(0.01</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.05</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.04</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(0.04</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.53</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.09</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.31</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.21</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.70</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.56</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.85</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cash dividends declared per
common share</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.18</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.18</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.18</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.18</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.18</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Common share
price:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">High</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>42.25</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>36.50</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>28.45</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>21.38</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">35.80</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">42.50</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">52.63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">52.32</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Low</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>31.69</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>22.00</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13.08</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9.71</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">16.55</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">31.68</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">37.61</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">39.50</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Diluted EPS from
discontinued operations was greater than basic EPS from
discontinued operations due to the impact of rounded fractional
amounts.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The results for the quarter
ended September&#xA0;30, 2009 include a $180 million benefit
related to (i)&#xA0;the accounting for a net investment in foreign
subsidiaries and (ii)&#xA0;the change in the fair value of certain
forward exchange contracts. The results of operations for the
quarter ended June&#xA0;30, 2009 include a $59 million benefit
related to the completion of certain account reconciliations. Refer
to Note 19 for further discussion of these items.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The results of operations
for the quarters ended June&#xA0;30, 2009 and December&#xA0;31,
2008 include restructuring charges in the amount of $199 million
and $410 million, respectively. Refer to Note 16 for further
discussion of these items.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
23</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">REGULATORY
MATTERS AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company is regulated by
the Federal Reserve and is subject to the Federal Reserve&#x2019;s
requirements for risk-based capital and leverage ratios. The
Company&#x2019;s two U.S. Bank operating subsidiaries, Centurion
Bank and FSB (collectively, the &#x201C;Banks&#x201D;), are subject
to similar regulatory capital requirements of the FDIC and the
Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Federal
Reserve&#x2019;s guidelines for capital adequacy define two
categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital (as
defined in the regulations). Under the risk-based capital
guidelines of the Federal Reserve, the Company is required to
maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2)
capital to risk weighted assets, as well as a minimum leverage
ratio (Tier 1 capital to average adjusted on-balance sheet
assets).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Failure to meet
minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and
possibly additional, discretionary actions by regulators, that, if
undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the
Company&#x2019;s and the Banks&#x2019; financial
statements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, the Company and its Banks were
well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to which each was
subject. Management is not aware of any events subsequent to
December&#xA0;31, 2009 that would materially, adversely affect the
Company&#x2019;s and the Banks&#x2019; 2009 capital ratios, including
the impact of the adoption of changes in GAAP governing the
accounting for transfers of financial assets effective
January&#xA0;1, 2010, as discussed in Note 1. While the adoption of
these new accounting standards is expected to result in a reduction
of the Company&#x2019;s capital ratios, such ratios are expected to
be above applicable well-capitalized levels.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
presents the regulatory capital ratios for the Company and the
Banks at December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="72%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except
percentages)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tier 1<br />
capital</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total<br />
capital</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tier
1<br />
capital<br />
ratio</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total<br />
capital<br />
ratio</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Tier
1<br />
leverage<br />
ratio<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">December&#xA0;31,
2009</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express
Company</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11,464</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13,894</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9.8</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11.9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9.7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Centurion
Bank<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,430</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,841</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13.7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15.0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>17.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Bank,
FSB<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,784</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,623</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14.2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>16.7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>15.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="8"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">December&#xA0;31,
2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express
Company</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">10,087</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11,610</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9.7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11.1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8.5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Centurion
Bank</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,029</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,386</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12.3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13.7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13.2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">American Express Bank,
FSB</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,415</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,767</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12.7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">14.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12.2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td height="8"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
<td height="8" colspan="3"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Well-capitalized
ratios<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">10.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Minimum capital
ratios<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.0</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8.0</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.0</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">FSB leverage ratio
represents Tier 1 core capital ratio, calculated similarly to Tier
1 leverage ratio.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Since January 2009, FSB has
committed to maintain a Total capital ratio of no less than 15
percent. During 2009, enhancements were made to the American
Express Credit Account Master Trust used to securitize credit card
receivables issued by both the FSB and Centurion Bank. As a result
of these enhancements, the Banks began holding capital against
their off balance sheet trust assets. The Company infused $1.4
billion and $475 million of additional capital into FSB and
Centurion Bank, respectively, during 2009 and in connection with
the foregoing increased capital commitment for FSB and the impact
of the trust enhancements for both FSB and Centurion
Bank.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As defined by the
regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), OTS and FDIC.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents requirements for
banking subsidiaries to be considered &#x201C;well
capitalized&#x201D; pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act. There is no
&#x201C;well capitalized&#x201D; definition for the Tier 1 leverage
ratio for a bank holding company.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">RESTRICTED
NET ASSETS OF SUBSIDIARIES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Certain of the
Company&#x2019;s subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the
transfer of net assets under debt agreements and regulatory
requirements. These restrictions have not had any effect on the
Company&#x2019;s shareholder dividend policy and management does not
anticipate any impact in the future. Procedures exist to transfer
net assets between the Company and its subsidiaries, while ensuring
compliance with the various contractual and regulatory constraints.
At December&#xA0;31,&#xA0;2009, the aggregate amount of net assets
of subsidiaries that are restricted to be transferred to American
Express&#x2019; Parent Company (Parent Company) was approximately
$9.5&#xA0;billion.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">BANK
HOLDING COMPANY DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company is limited in
its ability to pay dividends by its regulators who could prohibit a
dividend that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking
practice. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding
companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out
of net income attributable to common shareholders over the past
year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with
the organization&#x2019;s current and expected future capital needs,
asset quality, and overall financial condition. Moreover, bank
holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that
undermine a company&#x2019;s ability to be a source of strength to
its banking subsidiaries.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">BANKS&#x2019; DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In the years ended
December&#xA0;31, 2008 and 2007, Centurion Bank paid dividends from
retained earnings to its parent of $650 million and $700 million,
respectively, which were eliminated in the Company&#x2019;s
consolidation. No dividends were paid in 2009. In the years ended
December&#xA0;31, 2008 and 2007, FSB paid dividends from retained
earnings to its parent of $150 million and $150 million,
respectively, which were eliminated in the Company&#x2019;s
consolidation. No dividends were paid in 2009. As of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, the Banks could pay, in the
aggregate, $1.3 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively, in
dividends to their bank holding companies without the prior
approval of their respective banking regulators. In determining the
dividends, the Banks must also consider its effect on applicable
risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements, as well as
policy statements of the federal regulatory agencies.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
</div>
15197000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
16</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">RESTRUCTURING CHARGES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">During 2009, the Company
recorded $185 million of restructuring charges, net of adjustments
of previously accrued amounts due to revisions of prior estimates.
The 2009 activity primarily relates to the $199 million of
restructuring charges the Company recorded in the second quarter to
further reduce its operating costs by downsizing and reorganizing
certain operations. These restructuring activities were for the
elimination of approximately 4,000 positions or about 6 percent of
the Company&#x2019;s total worldwide workforce and occurred across
all business units, markets and staff groups. Additional
restructuring charges of $38 million taken in the third and fourth
quarters of 2009 relate principally to the reorganization of
certain senior leadership positions, as well as the exit of a
business in the Global Network&#xA0;&amp; Merchant Services (GNMS)
segment. The Company also recorded adjustments of $(52) million
during 2009 that primarily relate to revisions of prior estimates
for higher employee redeployments to other positions within the
Company, business changes and modifications to existing
initiatives. These modifications do not constitute a significant
change in the original restructuring plan from an overall Company
perspective.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">During 2008,
the Company recorded restructuring charges of $434 million, net of
adjustments of previously accrued amounts due to revisions of prior
estimates. While the Company&#x2019;s restructuring activity in the
first and third quarters of 2008 primarily related to exiting
certain international banking businesses, the Company recorded $410
million of restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 in
order to further reduce the Company&#x2019;s cost structure. This
restructuring was for the elimination of approximately 7,000
positions or approximately 10 percent of its total worldwide
workforce. These reductions primarily occurred across business
units, markets and staff groups focusing on management and other
positions that do not interact directly with customers, and related
to reorganizing or automating certain internal processes;
outsourcing certain operations to third parties; and discontinuing
or relocating business activities to other locations. During 2007,
the Company recorded restructuring charges of $49 million, net of
adjustments of previously accrued amounts due to revisions of prior
estimates, primarily related to the reorganizations within the
Company&#x2019;s business travel, operations, finance, and
technology areas.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Restructuring
charges related to severance obligations are included in salaries
and employee benefits and discontinued operations in the
Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Statements of Income, while charges
pertaining to other exit costs are included in occupancy and
equipment, professional services, other, net expenses and
discontinued operations.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the Company&#x2019;s restructuring reserves activity for
the years ended December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="79%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Severance<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Liability balance as of
December&#xA0;31, 2006</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">89</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">93</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Restructuring charges, net
of $17 in adjustments<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">34</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">15</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">49</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Payments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(61</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(67</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other non-cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Liability balance as of
December&#xA0;31, 2007</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">60</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Restructuring charges, net
of $10 in adjustments<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">366</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">68</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">434</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Payments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(63</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(13</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(76</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other non-cash</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Liability balance as of
December&#xA0;31, 2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">62</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">427</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Restructuring charges, net
of $52 in adjustments<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(e)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>161</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>185</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Payments</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(287</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(45</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(332</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other non-cash<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(f)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Liability balance as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(g)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>253</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>32</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>285</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accounted for in accordance
with the GAAP governing the accounting for nonretirement
postemployment benefits and for costs associated with exit or
disposal activities.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other primarily includes
facility exit, asset impairment and contract termination
costs.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Adjustments primarily
relate to higher than anticipated redeployments of displaced
employees to other positions within the Company.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes $17 million
related to discontinued operations.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(e)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Adjustments of $52 million
were recorded in the Company&#x2019;s reportable operating segments
as follows: $6 million in USCS, $28 million in ICS, $(15) million
in GCS, $3 million in GNMS, and $30 million in Corporate&#xA0;&amp;
Other. These adjustments primarily relate to higher employee
redeployments to other positions within the Company, business
changes and modifications to existing initiatives.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(f)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Consists primarily of
foreign exchange impacts offset by asset impairments directly
related to restructuring activity.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(g)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The majority of cash
payments related to the remaining restructuring liabilities are
expected to be completed in 2010, with the exception of certain
smaller amounts related to contractual long-term severance
arrangements which are expected to be completed in 2012, and
certain lease obligations which will continue until their
expiration in 2018.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the Company&#x2019;s restructuring charges, net of
adjustments, by reportable segment for the year ended
December&#xA0;31, 2009, and the cumulative amounts relating to the
restructuring programs that were in progress during 2009 and
initiated at various dates between 2006 and 2009.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="47%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="12%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="12%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="11%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="11%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="8" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cumulative&#xA0;Restructuring&#xA0;Expense&#xA0;Incurred&#xA0;to&#xA0;Date&#xA0;on<br />

in-Progress&#xA0;Restructuring&#xA0;Programs</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total&#xA0;Restructuring<br />
Charges net of<br />
adjustments</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Severance</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">USCS</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>12</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">64</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">70</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">ICS</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">86</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">91</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GCS</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>99</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">228</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">30</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">258</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GNMS</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">51</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">59</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Corporate &amp;
Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>44</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">160</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">48</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">208</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>185</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">589</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">97</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">686</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The Corporate&#xA0;&amp;
Other segment includes certain 2009 and 2008 severance and other
charges of $6 million and $133 million, respectively, related to
Company-wide support functions which were not allocated to the
Company&#x2019;s operating segments, as these were corporate
initiatives and are consistent with how such charges were reported
internally.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the total expenses to be incurred for previously approved
restructuring activities that were in progress are not expected to
be materially different than the cumulative expenses incurred to
date for these programs.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
5</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">LOANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">CARDMEMBER
LOANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Cardmember loans represent
amounts due from lending product customers. These loans are
recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a point-of-sale
transaction with a merchant or when a charge card customer enters
into an extended payment arrangement. Cardmember loans are
presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for
cardmember losses, unamortized net card fees and include accrued
interest receivable and fees as of the balance sheet date. The
Company&#x2019;s policy is to generally cease accruing for interest
receivable on a cardmember loan at the time when the account is
written off.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">RESERVES
FOR LOSSES &#x2013; CARDMEMBER LOANS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Reserves for losses
relating to cardmember loans represent management&#x2019;s best
estimate of the losses inherent in the Company&#x2019;s outstanding
portfolio of loans. Management&#x2019;s evaluation process requires
certain estimates and judgments. Reserves for these losses are
primarily based upon models that analyze portfolio performance and
reflect management&#x2019;s judgment regarding overall reserve
adequacy. The analytic models take into account several factors,
including average losses and recoveries over an appropriate
historical period. Management considers whether to adjust the
analytic models for specific factors such as increased risk in
certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives on
portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on
factors such as tenure, industry or geographic regions. In
addition, management adjusts the reserves for losses for other
external environmental factors including leading economic and
market indicators such as the unemployment rate, GDP, home price
indices, non-farm payrolls, personal consumption expenditures
index, consumer confidence index, purchasing manager&#x2019;s index,
bankruptcy filings and the legal and regulatory environment. As
part of this evaluation process, management also considers various
reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of
past-due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember loans and
net write-off coverage.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Cardmember loan
balances are written off when management deems amounts to be
uncollectible and is generally determined by the number of days
past due (at 180 days past due). Cardmember loans in bankruptcy or
owed by deceased individuals are written off upon notification.
Recoveries are recognized on a cash basis.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Loans as of
December&#xA0;31 consisted of:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">U.S. Card
Services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>23,507</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">32,684</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">International Card
Services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9,241</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9,499</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Global Commercial
Services</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>32,772</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">42,211</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less: Cardmember loans
reserve for losses</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,268</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,570</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>29,504</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">39,641</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other loans, net<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>506</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,018</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loan balance is
net of unamortized net card fees of $114 million and $115 million
as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other loans primarily
represent small business installment loans, a store card portfolio
whose billed business is not processed on the Company&#x2019;s
network and small business loans associated with the CPS
acquisition. Other loans at December&#xA0;31, 2008, included a loan
to an affiliate in discontinued operations.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
presents changes in the cardmember loans reserve for losses for
years ended December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="58%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="10%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance,
January&#xA0;1</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,570</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,831</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,171</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Additions:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans
provisions<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,209</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,106</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,615</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans
other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>57</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">125</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">146</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total provision</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,266</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,231</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,761</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deductions:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans net
write-offs&#xA0;&#x2014; principal<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(2,949</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(2,643</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1,636</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans net
write-offs&#xA0;&#x2014; interest and fees<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(448</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(580</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(354</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans
other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(171</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(269</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(111</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance,
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,268</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,570</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,831</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents loss provisions
for cardmember loans consisting of principal (resulting from
authorized transactions), interest and fee reserves
components.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Primarily represents
adjustments to cardmember loans resulting from unauthorized
transactions. For December&#xA0;31, 2008 and 2007, this amount also
includes waived fees.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans net
write-offs &#x2013; principal for 2009, 2008 and 2007 include
recoveries of $327 million, $301 million and $295 million,
respectively. Recoveries of interest and fees were de
minimis.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">For December&#xA0;31, 2009, the amount for cardmember loans
primarily includes $160 million of reserves that were removed in
connection with securitizations during the period. The offset is in
the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated
securities. For December&#xA0;31, 2008, these amounts include
reclassification of waived fee reserves to contra-cardmember loans.
This amount, for all periods, includes foreign currency translation
adjustments.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">PLEDGED
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Certain cardmember loans
and receivables totaling approximately $16.3 billion are pledged by
the Company to its securitization Trusts (refer to Note 7). Upon
adoption of new GAAP governing transfers of financial assets as of
January&#xA0;1, 2010, and the resulting consolidation of the
Lending Trust (refer to Note 1), approximately $29.0 billion of
additional cardmember loans will be recognized on the balance sheet
of the Company. While the $29.0 billion of additional cardmember
loans were sold by the Company&#x2019;s bank subsidiaries to the
Lending Trust, such loans are deemed to be pledged by the Company
to the Company&#x2019;s Lending Trust.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">IMPAIRED
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Individually
&#x201C;impaired&#x201D; loans and receivables are defined by GAAP as
larger balance or smaller balance homogeneous restructured loans
and receivables for which it is probable that the lender will be
unable to collect all amounts due according to the original
contractual terms of the loan and receivable agreement. The Company
may modify cardmember loans and receivables and such modifications
may include reducing the interest rate/delinquency fees on the
loans and receivables and/or placing the cardmember on a fixed
payment plan not exceeding 60 months. If the cardmember does not
comply with the modified terms, then the loan or receivable
agreement reverts back to its original terms. Impaired loans and
receivables include long-term modification programs or Troubled
Debt Restructurings (TDR), wherein the terms of a loan or
receivable have been modified for cardmembers that are experiencing
financial difficulties and a long-term concession (more than 12
months) has been granted to the borrower. TDRs totaled $114 million
and $71 million of cardmember loans and receivables outstanding as
of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Reserves for
losses for TDRs is determined by the difference between cash flows
expected to be received from the cardmember discounted at the
original contractual interest rates and the carrying value of the
cardmember balance.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The
Company&#x2019;s policy is generally to accrue interest through the
date of charge-off (i.e. 180 days past due). Loans amounting to
$299 million and $927 million at December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, were past due 90 days or more and still accruing
interest. These amounts include $46 million and $69 million of
cardmember loans that are also included in the Short Term
Modification Programs discussed above. In addition, as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, loans of $494 million and $14
million, respectively, were not accruing interest. These amounts
primarily include certain cardmember loans placed with outside
collection agencies.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">OTHER LOANS
AND RECEIVABLES WITH SHORT-TERM MODIFICATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In addition to the TDRs
discussed above, the Company has instituted other modification
programs that include short-term (12 months or less) interest rate
and fee reductions to cardmembers experiencing financial difficulty
(&#x201C;Short Term Modification Programs&#x201D;). As of December
31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $701 million and $497 million,
respectively, in cardmember loans and receivables have been
modified under these Short Term Modification Programs. These
amounts include $46 million and $69 million, respectively, of
cardmember loans that are also included in loans past due 90 days
or more still accruing interest discussed above. The short-term
modifications to these cardmember loans and receivables had no
incremental impact on the Company&#x2019;s reserve for
losses.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
13</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">GUARANTEES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company provides
cardmember protection plans that cover losses associated with
purchased products, as well as certain other guarantees in the
ordinary course of business which are within the scope of GAAP
governing the accounting for guarantees. For the Company,
guarantees primarily consist of card and travel protection
programs, including:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Credit Card Registry &#x2014; cancels and requests replacement
of lost or stolen cards, and provides for fraud liability
coverage;</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Return Protection &#x2014; refunds the price of eligible
purchases made with the card where the merchant will not accept the
return for up to 90 days from the date of purchase;</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Account Protection &#x2014; provides account protection in the
event that a cardmember is unable to make payments on the account
due to unforeseen hardship; and,</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Merchant Protection &#x2014; protects cardmembers primarily
against non-delivery of goods and services, usually in the event of
bankruptcy or liquidation of a merchant. In the event that a
dispute is resolved in the cardmember&#x2019;s favor, the Company
will credit the cardmember account for the amount of the purchase
and will seek recovery from the merchant. If the Company is unable
to collect the amount from the merchant, it will bear the loss for
the amount credited to the cardmember. The Company mitigates this
risk by withholding settlement from the merchant or obtaining
deposits and other guarantees from merchants considered higher risk
due to various factors. The amounts being held by the Company are
not significant when compared to the maximum potential amount of
future payments under this guarantee.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In relation to its maximum
amount of undiscounted future payments as seen in the table that
follows, to date the Company has not experienced any significant
losses related to guarantees. The Company&#x2019;s initial
recognition of guarantees is at fair value, which has been
determined in accordance with GAAP governing fair value
measurement. In addition, the Company establishes reserves when an
unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following
table provides information related to such guarantees as of
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="48%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="13%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Maximum&#xA0;amount<br />
of&#xA0;undiscounted<br />
future&#xA0;payments<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup><br />

<i>(Billions)</i></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amount&#xA0;of&#xA0;related<br />
liability<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup><br />

<i>(Millions)</i></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Type of
Guarantee</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Card and travel
operations<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>66</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">69</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>112</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">99</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(d)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>74</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">93</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>67</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">70</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>186</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">192</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Represents the notional
amounts that could be lost under the guarantees and
indemnifications if there were a total default by the guaranteed
parties. The Merchant Protection guarantee is calculated using
management&#x2019;s best estimate of maximum exposure based on all
eligible claims as measured against annual billed business
volumes.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Included as part of other
liabilities on the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance
Sheets.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes Credit Card
Registry, Return Protection, Account Protection and Merchant
Protection, which the Company offers directly to
cardmembers.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(d)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other primarily includes
guarantees related to the Company&#x2019;s business dispositions,
real estate, and tax, as well as contingent consideration
obligations, each of which are individually smaller
indemnifications.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Refer to Note 26 for a
discussion of additional guarantees of the Company as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
14</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">COMMON AND
PREFERRED SHARES AND WARRANTS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As of December&#xA0;31,
2009, the Company has 100&#xA0;million common shares remaining
under share repurchase authorizations. Such authorizations do not
have an expiration date, and at present, there is no intention to
modify or otherwise rescind the current authorizations.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Common shares
are generally retired by the Company upon repurchase (except for
5.0&#xA0;million, 0.4&#xA0;million and 0.5&#xA0;million shares held
as treasury shares at December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively); retired common shares and treasury shares are
excluded from the shares outstanding in the table below. The
Treasury shares, with a cost basis of $235 million, $21 million and
$29 million as of December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, are included as a reduction to additional paid-in
capital in shareholders&#x2019; equity on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following
table shows authorized shares and provides a reconciliation of
common shares issued and outstanding:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="68%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="3%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except where
indicated)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Common shares authorized
<i>(billions)</i><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3.6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Shares issued and
outstanding at beginning of year</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,160</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,158</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,199</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Issuances (Repurchases) of
common shares</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>22</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(60</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other, primarily stock
option exercises and RSAs granted</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Shares issued and
outstanding as of December&#xA0;31,</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,192</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,160</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,158</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Of the common shares
authorized but unissued as of December&#xA0;31, 2009, approximately
124&#xA0;million shares were reserved for issuance under employee
stock and employee benefit plans.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Board of Directors is
authorized to permit the Company to issue up to 20&#xA0;million
preferred shares at a par value of $1.66 2/3 without further
shareholder approval.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">On
January&#xA0;9, 2009, under the United States Department of the
Treasury (Treasury Department) Capital Purchase Program (CPP), the
Company issued to the Treasury Department as consideration for
aggregate proceeds of $3.39&#xA0;billion:
(1)&#xA0;3.39&#xA0;million shares of Fixed Rate
(5&#xA0;percent)&#xA0;Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares
Series&#xA0;A (the Preferred Shares), and (2)&#xA0;a ten-year
warrant (the&#xA0;Warrant) for the Treasury Department to purchase
up to 24&#xA0;million common shares at an exercise price of
$20.95&#xA0;per share. Upon issuance, $3.16&#xA0;billion of the
proceeds were allocated to the Preferred Shares, and
$232&#xA0;million of the proceeds were allocated to the Warrant
based on their relative fair values at the date of
issuance.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">As a
pre-condition of the repurchase of the Preferred Shares, the
Treasury Department and the Company&#x2019;s Banking Regulator
required that the Company raise capital in the public markets. As a
result, the Company issued $3.0 billion of non-guaranteed senior
debt on May&#xA0;18, 2009 and approximately 22&#xA0;million common
shares at $25.25 per share in June 2009.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">On
June&#xA0;17, 2009, the Company repurchased the Preferred Shares at
their face value of $3.39&#xA0;billion. Because the
$3.39&#xA0;billion cash paid exceeded the $3.18&#xA0;billion
amortized carrying amount of the Preferred Shares, the
$212&#xA0;million excess represented an in-substance Preferred
Share dividend that reduced earnings per share (EPS) attributable
to common shareholders by $0.18 for the year ended
December&#xA0;31, 2009. Refer to Note&#xA0;18.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">On
July&#xA0;29, 2009, the Company repurchased the Warrant for
$340&#xA0;million. The Warrant repurchase resulted in reductions of
cash, retained earnings and additional paid-in-capital on the
Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Warrant repurchase
had no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement and EPS for the
year ended December&#xA0;31, 2009. There were no preferred shares
or warrants issued and outstanding as of December&#xA0;31,
2009.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
25</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">REPORTABLE
OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">REPORTABLE
OPERATING SEGMENTS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company is a leading
global payments and travel company that is principally engaged in
businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: U.S. Card
Services (USCS), International Card Services (ICS), Global
Commercial Services (GCS) and Global Network&#xA0;&amp; Merchant
Services (GNMS).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
considers a combination of factors when evaluating the composition
of its reportable operating segments, including the results
reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic
characteristics, products and services offered, classes of
customers, product distribution channels, geographic considerations
(primarily U.S. versus international), and regulatory environment
considerations. Based on these factors, the Company has the
following four reportable operating segments:</font></p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">USCS issues a wide range of card products and services to
consumers and small businesses in the United States, and provides
consumer travel services to cardmembers and other
consumers.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">ICS issues proprietary consumer and small business cards
outside the United States.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">GCS offers global corporate payment and travel-related products
and services to large and mid-sized companies.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">GNMS segment operates a global general-purpose charge and
credit card network, which includes both proprietary cards and
cards issued under network partnership agreements. It also manages
merchant services globally, which includes signing merchants to
accept cards as well as processing and settling card transactions
for those merchants. This segment also offers merchants
point-of-sale products, servicing and settlements and marketing
programs.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Corporate functions and
auxiliary businesses, including the Company&#x2019;s publishing
business, the Global Prepaid business, as well as other company
operations are included in Corporate&#xA0;&amp; Other.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
presents certain selected financial information as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and for each of the years
then ended.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="51%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except where
indicated)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">USCS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">ICS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GCS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GNMS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Corporate&#xA0;&amp;<br />
Other<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Consolidated</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-interest
revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9,525</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,404</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,157</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,625</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>688</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>21,399</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,221</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,588</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>61</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>455</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,331</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>855</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>509</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>172</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(85</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>756</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,207</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>11,891</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,046</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,716</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>387</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24,523</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total provision</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,769</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,211</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>177</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>135</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>21</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5,313</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax income from
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>324</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>230</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>568</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,381</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>338</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,841</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income tax provision
(benefit)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>75</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(73</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>178</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>483</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>41</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>704</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>249</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>303</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>390</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>898</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>297</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,137</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total equity
<i>(billions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6.5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2.2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3.4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.8</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14.4</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-interest
revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11,427</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,758</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,081</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,875</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">578</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">24,719</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,736</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,984</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">168</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">308</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,201</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,166</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">961</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">553</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(222</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">97</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,555</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13,997</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,781</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,696</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,102</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">789</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28,365</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total provision</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,389</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,030</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">231</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">127</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">21</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,798</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax income from
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,141</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">153</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">693</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,490</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">104</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,581</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income tax provision
(benefit)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">289</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(198</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">188</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">495</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(64</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">710</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">852</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">351</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">505</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">995</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">168</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,871</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total equity
<i>(billions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">0.1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11.8</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Non-interest
revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11,750</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,499</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,697</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,549</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">621</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">24,116</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest income</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,125</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,741</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">187</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">368</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7,424</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,653</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">909</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">615</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(312</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">116</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,981</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">14,222</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,331</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,269</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,864</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">873</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27,559</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total provision</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,998</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">812</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">163</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">103</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,103</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax income from
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,730</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">117</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,560</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">543</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,694</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income tax provision
(benefit)</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">907</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(174</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">208</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">538</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">89</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,568</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income from continuing
operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,823</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">291</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">536</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,022</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">454</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,126</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total equity
<i>(billions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.5</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.1</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.2</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.2</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.0</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11.0</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Corporate&#xA0;&amp; Other
includes adjustments and eliminations for intersegment
activity.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The Company changed the
manner by which it assesses the performance of its reportable
operating segments to exclude the impact of its excess liquidity
funding levels. Accordingly, beginning in 2009, the debt and cash
and investment balances associated with the Company&#x2019;s excess
liquidity funding and the related net negative interest spread are
no longer included within the reportable operating segment results
(primarily USCS and GCS segments) and are reported in the
Corporate&#xA0;&amp; Other segment. The segment results for the
prior years have not been revised for this change. The impact on
segment income from continuing operations was an increase to USCS,
ICS, and GCS of $101 million, $1 million and $41 million,
respectively, and a decrease to Corporate&#xA0;&amp; Other of $143
million for the year ending December&#xA0;31, 2009. The impact on
reportable operating segment asset and liability balances for this
change was a decrease to USCS and GCS of $19 billion and $7
billion, respectively, and an increase to Corporate&#xA0;&amp;
Other of $26 billion as of December&#xA0;31, 2009.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Total
Revenues Net of Interest Expense</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company allocates
discount revenue and certain other revenues among segments using a
transfer pricing methodology. Segments earn discount revenue based
on the volume of merchant business generated by cardmembers. Within
the USCS, ICS and GCS segments, discount revenue reflects the
issuer component of the overall discount rate; within the GNMS
segment, discount revenue reflects the network and merchant
component of the overall discount rate. Total interest income and
net card fees are directly attributable to the segment in which
they are reported.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Provisions
for Losses</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The provisions for losses
are directly attributable to the segment in which they are
reported.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Expenses</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Marketing, promotion,
rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each
segment based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of
brand advertising, which is reflected in the GNMS segment. Rewards
and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment
based on actual expenses incurred within each segment. Salaries and
employee benefits and other operating expenses reflect expenses,
such as professional services, occupancy and equipment, and
communications, incurred directly within each segment. In addition,
expenses related to the Company&#x2019;s support services, such as
technology costs, are allocated to each segment based on support
service activities directly attributable to the segment. Other
overhead expenses, such as staff group support functions, are
allocated from Corporate&#xA0;&amp; Other to the other segments
based on each segment&#x2019;s relative level of pretax income, with
the exception of certain fourth quarter 2008 severance and other
related charges of $133 million from the Company&#x2019;s fourth
quarter restructuring initiatives for staff group support
functions. This presentation is consistent with how such charges
were reported internally. See further discussion in Note 16
regarding this corporate initiative. Financing requirements are
managed on a consolidated basis. Funding costs are allocated based
on segment funding&#xA0;requirements.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Capital</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Each business segment is
allocated capital based on established business model operating
requirements, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements.
Business model operating requirements include capital needed to
support operations and specific balance sheet items. The risk
measures include considerations for credit, market, and operational
risk.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Income
Taxes</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Income tax provision
(benefit) is allocated to each business segment based on the
effective tax rates applicable to various businesses that make up
the segment.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">GEOGRAPHIC
OPERATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
presents the Company&#x2019;s total revenues net of interest expense
and pretax income in different geographic regions:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="58%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">United&#xA0;States</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Europe</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Asia/Pacific</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">All&#xA0;Other</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Consolidated</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>16,582</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,151</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,335</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,455</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24,523</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax income from
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,034</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>300</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>200</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>307</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,841</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19,365</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,755</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,544</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,701</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28,365</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax income from
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,110</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">196</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">99</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">176</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,581</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total revenues net of
interest expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">19,456</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,515</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,231</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,357</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27,559</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Pretax income from
continuing operations</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,984</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">301</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">124</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">285</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5,694</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The data in the above table
is, in part, based upon internal allocations, which necessarily
involve management&#x2019;s judgment.</font></p>
</div>
202000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 7px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
1</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">THE
COMPANY</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">American Express is a
global service company that provides customers with access to
products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build
business success. The Company&#x2019;s principal products and
services are charge and credit payment card products and
travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses around
the world. The Company&#x2019;s various products and services are
sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers,
small businesses, middle-market companies, and large corporations.
These products and services are sold through various channels,
including direct mail, on-line applications, targeted direct and
third-party sales forces and direct response
advertising.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">PRINCIPLES
OF CONSOLIDATION</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company are prepared in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). All significant
intercompany transactions are eliminated. The Company has performed
an evaluation of subsequent events through February&#xA0;25, 2010,
which is the date the financial statements were issued.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
consolidates all voting interest entities in which the Company
holds a controlling financial interest through which the Company is
able to exercise control over those entities&#x2019; operating and
financial decisions. Entities in which the Company&#x2019;s voting
interest does not provide the Company with control, but allows the
Company to exert significant influence over their financial and
operating decisions are accounted for under the equity method. All
other investments in equity securities, to the extent that they are
not considered marketable securities, are accounted for under the
cost method.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Investments
with variable interest entities (VIEs) are limited. The Company
consolidates any VIEs for which it is considered to be the primary
beneficiary. The determination of whether an entity is a VIE is
based on the amount and characteristics of the entity&#x2019;s
equity. An enterprise is required to consolidate a VIE when it has
a variable interest for which it is deemed to be the primary
beneficiary, that is, it will absorb a majority of the VIE&#x2019;s
expected losses or receive a majority of the VIE&#x2019;s expected
residual returns.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Certain
reclassifications of prior period amounts have been made to conform
to the current presentation. These reclassifications did not have
an impact on the Company&#x2019;s results of operations.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">FOREIGN
CURRENCY</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars
based upon exchange rates prevailing at the end of each year. The
resulting translation adjustments, along with any related
qualifying hedge and tax effects, are included in accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) income, a component of shareholders&#x2019;
equity. Translation adjustments, including qualifying hedge and tax
effects, are reclassified to earnings upon the sale or substantial
liquidation of investments in foreign operations. Revenues and
expenses are translated at the average month-end exchange rates
during the year. Gains and losses related to transactions in a
currency other than the functional currency, including operations
outside the U.S. where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar,
are reported net, in the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Statements of
Income, in other non-interest revenue, interest income, interest
expense, or other, net expense, depending on the nature of the
activity. Net foreign currency transaction gains amounted to
approximately $205&#xA0;million, $15 million and $27 million in
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Refer to Note 19 for further
discussion of certain items that impacted these gains in
2009.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">AMOUNTS
BASED ON ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Accounting estimates are an
integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. These
estimates are based, in part, on management&#x2019;s assumptions
concerning future events. Among the more significant assumptions
are those that relate to reserves for cardmember losses relating to
loans and charge card receivables, reserves for Membership Rewards
cost, fair value measurements, goodwill and income taxes. These
accounting estimates reflect the best judgment of management, but
actual results could differ.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">TOTAL
REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Discount
Revenue</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Discount revenue represents
fees charged to merchants with which the Company, or its franchise
partners, has entered into card acceptance agreements for
facilitating transactions between the merchants and the
Company&#x2019;s cardmembers. The discount generally is deducted
from the payment to the merchant and recorded as discount revenue
at the time the charge is captured.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Net Card
Fees</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Card fees are deferred and
recognized on a straight-line basis over the 12-month card
membership period, net of deferred direct card acquisition costs
and a reserve for projected membership cancellations. Charge card
fees are recognized in net card fees in the Consolidated Statements
of Income and the unamortized net card fee balance is reported in
other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note
11). Loan product fees are considered an enhancement to the yield
on the product, and are recognized in interest and fees on loans in
the Consolidated Statements of Income. The unamortized net card fee
balance for lending products is reported net in cardmember loans on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 5).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Travel
Commissions and Fees</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company earns travel
commissions and fees by charging clients transaction or management
fees for selling and arranging travel and travel management
services. Client transaction fee revenue is recognized at the time
the client books the travel arrangements. Travel management
services revenue is recognized over the contractual term of the
agreement. The Company&#x2019;s travel suppliers (for example,
airlines, hotels, car rental companies) pay commissions and fees on
tickets issued, sales and other services based on contractual
agreements. Commissions and fees from travel suppliers are
generally recognized at the time a ticket is purchased or over the
term of the contract. Commissions and fees that are based on actual
usage that is unknown at time of purchase (for example, hotel and
car rentals) are recognized when cash is received.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Other
Commissions and Fees</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Other commissions and fees
include foreign currency conversion fees, delinquency fees, service
fees and other card related assessments, which are recognized
primarily in the period in which they are charged to the
cardmember. Also included are fees related to the Company&#x2019;s
Membership Rewards program, which are deferred and recognized over
the period covered by the fee. The unamortized Membership Rewards
fee balance is included in other liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets (refer to Note 11).</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Contra-revenue</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company regularly makes
payments through contractual arrangements with merchants,
Commercial Card clients and certain other customers, collectively
the &#x201C;customers&#x201D;. Payments to customers are generally
classified as contra-revenue unless a specifically identifiable
benefit (e.g. goods or services) is received by the Company in
consideration for that payment and the fair value of such benefit
is determinable and measurable. If no such benefit is identified,
then the entire payment is classified as contra-revenue, and
included within total non-interest revenues in the Consolidated
Statements of Income in the line item where the related transaction
revenues are recorded (e.g. discount revenue, travel commissions
and fees, and other commissions and fees). If such a benefit is
identified, then the payment is classified as expense up to the
estimated fair value of the benefit.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Interest
Income</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Interest on loans owned is
assessed using the average daily balance method. Interest is
recognized based upon the loan principal amount outstanding in
accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement until
the outstanding balance is paid or written-off.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Interest and
dividends on investment securities primarily relates to the
Company&#x2019;s performing fixed-income securities. Interest income
is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which
adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and
other payments, so that a constant rate of return is recognized on
the investment security&#x2019;s outstanding balance. Amounts are
recognized until such time as a security is in default or when it
is likely that future interest payments will not be made as
scheduled.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Interest on
deposits with banks and other is recognized as earned, and
primarily relates to the placement of cash in excess of near-term
funding requirements in interest-bearing time deposits, overnight
sweep accounts, and other interest bearing demand and call
accounts.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Interest
Expense</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Interest expense includes
interest incurred primarily to fund cardmember loans, charge card
product receivables, general corporate purposes, and liquidity
needs, and is recognized as incurred. Interest expense is divided
principally into three categories (i)&#xA0;deposits, which
primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken from
customers and institutions, (ii)&#xA0;short-term borrowings, which
primarily relates to interest expense on commercial paper, federal
funds purchased, bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings,
and (iii)&#xA0;long-term debt, which primarily relates to interest
expense on the Company&#x2019;s long-term financing.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">BALANCE
SHEET</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Cash and
Cash Equivalents</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Cash and cash equivalents
include cash and amounts due from banks, interest-bearing bank
balances, including securities purchased under resale agreements
and other highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90
days or less.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Premises
and Equipment</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Premises and equipment,
including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation. Costs incurred during construction are
capitalized and are depreciated once an asset is placed in service.
Depreciation is generally computed using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of assets, which range from 3 to 8
years for equipment. Premises are depreciated based upon their
estimated useful life at the acquisition date, which generally
ranges from 40 to 60 years.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Leasehold
improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over
the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the
economic life of the improvement, which ranges from 5 to 10 years.
The Company maintains operating leases worldwide for facilities and
equipment. Rent expense for facility leases is recognized ratably
over the lease term, and is calculated to include adjustments for
rent concessions, rent escalations and leasehold improvement
allowances. The Company accounts for lease restoration obligations
in accordance with applicable GAAP, which requires recognition of
the fair value of restoration liabilities when incurred, and
amortization of capitalized restoration costs over the lease
term.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><i>Software development
costs</i></font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company capitalizes
certain costs associated with the acquisition or development of
internal-use software. Once the software is ready for its intended
use, these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
software&#x2019;s estimated useful life, generally 5
years.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
identifies the Company&#x2019;s other significant accounting
policies, the Note and page where a detailed description of each
policy can be found.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="44%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="1%"></td>
<td width="6%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="1%"></td>
<td width="41%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="1%"></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="center">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Significant
Accounting Policy</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="center">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Note<br />
Number</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="center">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Note
Title</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Page</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair Value
Measurements</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note&#xA0;3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fair Values of Financial Instruments</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;77</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accounts
Receivable</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accounts Receivable</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;80</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loans</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 5</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Loans</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;82</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investment
Securities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Investment Securities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;84</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Securitization Income, Net;
and Asset Securitization</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Asset Securitizations</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;87</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other Assets</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;91</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Membership
Rewards</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 11</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other Liabilities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;97</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative Financial
Instruments and Hedging Activities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 12</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative and Hedging Activities</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;98</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income Taxes</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Income Taxes</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;108</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other Non-Interest
Revenues</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of
Income</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;110</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other, Net
Expense</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 19</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Details of Certain Consolidated Statements of
Income</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;110</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Stock-based
Compensation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 20</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Stock Plans</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;111</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Bank Holding
Company</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note 23</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Regulatory Matters and Capital Adequacy</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;119</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reportable Operating
Segments</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Note
25</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reportable
Operating Segments and Geographic Operations</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Page&#xA0;122</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">RECENTLY
ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) recently issued the following accounting
standards, which are effective beginning January&#xA0;1,
2010.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.&#xA0;2009-16, Transfers
and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers of Financial
Assets: An amendment for accounting for transfers of financial
assets will eliminate the concept of a qualifying special purpose
entity (QSPE), therefore requiring these entities to be evaluated
under the accounting guidance for consolidation of VIEs. Other
changes include additional considerations when determining if sale
accounting is appropriate, as well as enhanced disclosure
requirements. The new standard is to be applied prospectively to
transactions completed after the effective date.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="1%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">&#x2022;</font></font></td>
<td valign="top" width="1%"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left">
<p align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">ASU No.&#xA0;2009-17, Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements
to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable
Interest Entities: An amendment for accounting by enterprises
involved with VIEs eliminates the scope exception for QSPEs and
requires an entity to reconsider its previous consolidation
conclusions reached under the VIE consolidation model, including
(i)&#xA0;whether an entity is a VIE, (ii)&#xA0;whether the
enterprise is the VIE&#x2019;s primary beneficiary, and
(iii)&#xA0;the required financial statement disclosures. The new
standard can be applied as of the effective date, with a
cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings recognized on
that date, or retrospectively, with a cumulative-effect adjustment
to retained earnings recognized as of the beginning of the first
year adjusted.</font></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company has determined
that it will be required to consolidate the American Express Credit
Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) as a result of
implementing these standards. This will result in approximately
$29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans being recognized on
the balance sheet of the Company effective January&#xA0;1, 2010,
along with $25.0 billion of long-term debt. This will also result
in the reduction of the Company&#x2019;s investment securities by
$3.6 billion and other assets by $0.7 billion. The $29.0 billion of
cardmember loans will require associated loan loss reserves of
approximately $2.5 billion, which will be charged directly against
retained earnings. The adjustments described above will reduce
shareholders&#x2019; equity by approximately $1.8 billion on an
after-tax basis. Refer to Note 7 for further discussion of the
Lending Trust.</font></p>
</div>
279000000
531000000
3389000000
1171000000
1168000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
7</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">ASSET
SECURITIZATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company periodically
securitizes cardmember receivables and loans arising from its card
business through the transfer of those assets to a trust. The trust
then issues securities to third-party investors, collateralized by
the transferred assets. Securitization transactions are accounted
for as either sales or secured borrowings, based on the structure
of the transaction and the current GAAP requirements. Refer to Note
1 for a description of the changes in GAAP governing the accounting
for transfers of financial assets, which will result in all
securitization transactions being accounted for as secured
borrowings by the Company effective January&#xA0;1,
2010.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Based on GAAP
in effect at December&#xA0;31, 2009, in order for a securitization
of financial assets to be accounted for as a sale, the transferor
must surrender control over those financial assets to the extent
that the transferor receives consideration other than beneficial
interests in the transferred assets.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Cardmember
loans are transferred to the American Express Credit Account Master
Trust, the Lending Trust, which meets the criteria of a qualifying
special purpose entity (QSPE), and such transactions qualify as
accounting sales through year-end, 2009. Accordingly, when loans
were sold through securitizations, the Company removed the loans
from its Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized a gain or loss
on sale and retained interests in the securitizations.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Cardmember
receivables are transferred to the American Express Issuance Trust,
the Charge Trust, which is not a QSPE. Securitizations of
cardmember receivables are accounted for as secured
borrowings.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">OFF-BALANCE
SHEET SECURITIZATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Servicing
Portfolio</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In consideration for the
transfer of the current cardmember loans, as well as the future
cash flows related to the cardmember account, the Company, through
its subsidiaries, receives an undivided, pro rata interest in the
trust referred to as seller&#x2019;s interest, which is equal to the
balance of all cardmember loans ($36.2 billion and $40.5 billion as
of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) transferred to
the Lending Trust plus the associated accrued interest receivable
($918 million and $1.1 billion at December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively) less the investors&#x2019; portion of those assets
(securitized cardmember loans). Seller&#x2019;s interest is reported
as cardmember loans on the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance
Sheets. Any accrued interest related to the investors&#x2019;
portion of securitized cardmember loans is reported as other assets
on the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance Sheets.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company
retains servicing responsibilities for the transferred cardmember
loans through its subsidiary, American Express Travel Related
Services Company, Inc. (TRS), and earns a related fee. No servicing
asset or liability is recognized at the time of a securitization
because the Company receives adequate compensation relative to
current market servicing fees.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
illustrates the activity in the Lending Trust (including the
securitized cardmember loans and seller&#x2019;s interest) for the
years ended December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Lending Trust assets,
January&#xA0;1</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>41,579</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">36,194</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Account additions,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,956</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">10,187</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember activity,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(7,457</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4,802</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Lending Trust assets,
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>37,078</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">41,579</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Securitized cardmember
loans, January&#xA0;1</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>28,955</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">22,670</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact of issuances,
external</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,250</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9,640</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact of issuances,
retained</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,013</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,315</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact of
maturities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(4,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4,670</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Securitized cardmember
loans, December&#xA0;31</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>28,326</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28,955</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Seller&#x2019;s interest,
January&#xA0;1</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>12,624</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13,524</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact of
issuances</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(4,263</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(10,955</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact of
maturities</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>4,892</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4,670</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Account additions,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,956</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">10,187</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember activity,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(7,457</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(4,802</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Seller&#x2019;s interest,
December&#xA0;31</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>8,752</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12,624</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company announced in
the second quarter of 2009 that certain actions affecting
outstanding series of securities issued by the Lending Trust were
completed in order to adjust the credit enhancement structure of
substantially all of the outstanding series of securities
previously issued by the Lending Trust. These actions were to
address the concerns of rating agencies and the decline in the
trust excess spread due to the performance of the underlying credit
card receivables in the Lending Trust. The actions, which are
permitted by the transaction documents governing the Lending Trust,
consisted of the following:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">1.</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Issuance of two new series
of investor certificates (collectively, the &#x201C;Series D
Certificates&#x201D;) equaling approximately $1.5 billion in
aggregate. The Series D Certificates were acquired by the Company
in exchange for a portion of the sellers&#x2019; interest in the
Lending Trust. The D Certificates, which were issued at a market
interest rate, are subordinated to all other investor certificates
and therefore provide additional credit enhancement to all
outstanding series. These certificates have various maturities,
including a final maturity of 2018.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="4%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">2.</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Designation of a percentage
of new principal receivables arising from accounts in the Lending
Trust as &#x201C;Discount Option Receivables&#x201D; (as defined in
the Lending Trust documentation). As permitted under the terms of
the transaction documents governing the Lending Trust, collections
on Discount Option Receivables may be applied as finance charge
collections, which increased the yield on the assets in the Lending
Trust by approximately 400-650 basis points beginning with the July
2009 monthly reporting period. The designation of Discount Option
Receivables is scheduled to continue through 2010.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The actions described above
did not have a material impact on the Company&#x2019;s results of
operations.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Securitization Income</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
summarizes the activity related to securitized loans reported in
securitization income, net for the years ended
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="64%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2007</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Excess spread,
net<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(155</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">544</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,025</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Servicing fees</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>562</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">543</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">425</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(Losses) Gains on sales
from securitizations<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(17</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">57</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Securitization income,
net</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>400</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,070</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,507</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Excess spread, net is the
net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the
investors&#x2019; interests after deducting the interest paid on
investor certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees,
other expenses, and the changes in the fair value of the
interest-only strip. This amount excludes issuer rate fee
collections, which are a portion of monthly discount revenue that
is earned and collected by the Company on new transactions by
cardmembers that have their loans sold into the Lending Trust.
These cash flows are available to pay monthly Lending Trust
expenses. The issuer rate is reported in discount revenue in the
Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Statements of Income. In periods when
the excess spread, net in the Lending Trust becomes negative, and
the issuer rate fee collections are utilized to pay Lending Trust
expenses, the Company recognizes an expense in securitization
income, net in the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Statements of
Income.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Excludes $201 million and
$(393) million of credit provision impact from cardmember loan
sales and maturities for 2009, $446 million and $(177) million of
credit provision impact from cardmember loan sales and maturities
for 2008, as well as $144 million and $(84) million of credit
provision impact from cardmember loan sales and maturities for
2007.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">At the time of a cardmember
loan securitization, the Company records a gain (loss) on sale,
which is calculated as the difference between the proceeds from the
sale and the book basis of the cardmember loans sold. The book
basis is determined by allocating the carrying amount of the sold
cardmember loans, net of applicable credit reserves, between the
cardmember loans sold and the interests retained based on their
relative fair values. Such fair values are based on market prices
at the date of transfer for the sold cardmember loans and on the
estimated present value of future cash flows for retained
interests. Gains (losses) on sale from securitizations are reported
in securitization income, net in the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated
Statements of Income. The income component resulting from the
release of credit reserves upon sale of cardmember loans is
reported as a reduction of provision for losses from cardmember
loans. The removal of credit reserves in connection with retained
subordinated securities is offset in the allocated cost of the
associated retained subordinated securities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Retained
Interests in Securitized Assets and Fair Value
Measurement</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company retains
subordinated interests in the securitized cardmember loans. These
interests include one or more A-rated, BBB-rated and unrated
investments in tranches of the securitization (subordinated
securities) and an interest-only strip. The following table
presents retained interests for the years ended
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="77%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="6%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Subordinated
securities<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,599</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Interest-only
strip<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>20</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">32</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total retained
interests</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3,619</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">776</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The subordinated securities
are accounted for at fair value as available-for-sale investment
securities and are reported in investments on the Company&#x2019;s
Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains (losses) recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The interest-only strip is
accounted for at fair value and is reported in other assets on the
Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fair
value recorded in securitization income, net in the Company&#x2019;s
Consolidated Statements of Income.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Refer to Note 3 for a
description of&#xA0;the Company&#x2019;s methodology for determining
the fair value&#xA0;of retained subordinated interests and
interest-only strips and related fair value disclosures.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Changes in the
estimates and assumptions used may have a significant impact on the
Company&#x2019;s valuation of the retained interests. The key
economic assumptions used in measuring the interest-only strip
asset at the time of issuance as well as at December&#xA0;31, 2009,
and the sensitivity of the fair value to immediate 10 percent and
20 percent adverse changes in these assumptions are as follows
(rates are per annum):</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="28%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="8%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="13" align="center">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Interest-Only Strip</b></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="4" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">At&#xA0;time&#xA0;of&#xA0;issuance</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="5" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">As of December 31,
2009</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions,&#xA0;except<br />
rates&#xA0;per&#xA0;annum)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Assumptions</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact&#xA0;on<br />
fair value<br />
of 10%<br />
adverse<br />
change<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Finance<br />
charge yield</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13.2%-13.5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">13.5%-15.6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>12.4%-13.4</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(77.8</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Expected<br />
credit losses</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>9.8%-10.9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.3%-5.8</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>7.6%-8.7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(50.7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">LIBOR</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.3%-0.9</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.7%-4.6</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>0.2%-0.6</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(1.7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Monthly payment<br />
rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>23.0%-23.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">23.8%-24.7</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>25.5</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(0.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discount<br />
rate</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14.3%-17.2</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">11.0%-12.0</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">%&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>12.4</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The impact on fair value of
a 20 percent adverse change is approximately two times the impact
of a 10 percent adverse change identified above.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The fair value of the
interest-only strip is $20 million as of December&#xA0;31, 2009.
Therefore, a 10 percent adverse change in the assumption would
result in the fair value of the interest-only strip written down to
zero.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The key assumptions and the
sensitivity of the current year&#x2019;s fair value of the retained
subordinated securities to immediate 10 percent and 20 percent
adverse changes in these key assumptions are as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="28%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="15%"></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="15%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="13%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="10" align="center">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px" align="center">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Retained
Subordinated Securities</b></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions, except<br />
rates per annum)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Assumptions</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact&#xA0;on&#xA0;fair<br />
value of 10%<br />
adverse&#xA0;change</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Impact&#xA0;on&#xA0;fair<br />
value of 20%<br />
adverse&#xA0;change</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Discount rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2.5%-20.7%</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(57.2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(112.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">LIBOR</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.0%-3.9 %</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.5</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.0</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">This sensitivity analysis
does not represent management&#x2019;s expectations of adverse
changes in these assumptions but is provided as a hypothetical
scenario to assess the sensitivity of the fair value of the
retained subordinated interests to changes in key inputs.
Management cannot extrapolate changes in fair value based on a 10
percent or 20 percent change in all key assumptions simultaneously
in part because the relationship of the change in one assumption on
the fair value of the retained interest is calculated independently
from any change in another assumption. Changes in one factor may
cause changes in another, which could magnify or offset the
sensitivities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Other
Disclosures</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The table below summarizes
cash flows received from the Lending Trust for the years ended
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Proceeds from new
securitizations during the&#xA0;period<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,244</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">9,619</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Proceeds from collections
reinvested in revolving cardmember securitizations</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>81,654</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">78,164</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Servicing fees
received</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>562</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">543</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Excess spread received,
including issuer rate collections and discounting</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,520</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,363</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net of issuance
expenses.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following table
presents quantitative information about delinquencies, net credit
losses, and components of securitized cardmember loans as of
December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="41%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="16%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="16%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="16%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Billions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total&#xA0;Amount<br />
of<br />
Cardmember<br />
Loans</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Amount&#xA0;of<br />
Loans 30<br />
Days or<br />
More Past<br />
Due</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net<br />
Credit<br />
Write-offs<br />
During<br />
the Year</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans
managed<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>61.1</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2.2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>6.2</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less: Cardmember loans
securitized</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>28.3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2.8</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans on-balance
sheet</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>32.8</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1.2</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3.4</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans
managed</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">71.2</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.3</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">4.9</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Less: Cardmember loans
securitized</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">29.0</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.4</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.7</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Cardmember loans on-balance
sheet</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">42.2</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1.9</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3.2</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Excludes subordinated
accrued interest receivable classified in other assets of $719
million and $807 million as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Refer to Note 8.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">ON-BALANCE
SHEET SECURITIZATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company&#x2019;s
securitizations of cardmember receivables are accounted for as
secured borrowings. The Charge Trust is considered a variable
interest entity and is consolidated by American Express Receivables
Financing Corporation V, LLC, its primary beneficiary, which is in
turn consolidated by the Company.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The cardmember
receivables securitized through this entity are not accounted for
as sold and continue to be reported as owned assets on the
Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The related securities
issued to third-party investors are reported as long-term debt on
the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated Balance Sheets.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following
table summarizes the total assets and liabilities held by the
Charge Trust as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="80%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Billions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Assets</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>8.3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">7.8</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Liabilities</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>5.0</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">5.0</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">These receivables are
available only for payment of the debt or other obligations issued
or arising in the securitization transactions. For these assets,
the carrying values approximate fair value because these are
short-term in duration. The long-term debt is payable only out of
collections on the underlying securitized assets. The fair value of
these liabilities was $5.0 billion and $4.4 billion as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">LENDING
TRUST AND CHARGE TRUST TRIGGERS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Under the respective terms
of the Lending Trust and the Charge Trust agreements, the
occurrence of certain events could result in payment of trust
expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in a worst-case
scenario, early amortization of investor certificates.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following
table below presents key metrics reported by each trust as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="72%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="9%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Lending<br />
Trust</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Charge<br />
Trust</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Excess spread rate,
net:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup>&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3-month average &#x2014;
Trigger event</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Trust trigger for reserve
account funding</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&lt;&#xA0;5.00</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&lt;&#xA0;4.00</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Trust trigger for early
amortization</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: SYMBOL">&#xA3;</font> 0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: SYMBOL">&#xA3;</font> 0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3-month average &#x2014;
Actual rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating rate
series</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>14.75</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>30.77</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed rate
series</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>10.36</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>27.51</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Reserve account funding
<i>(millions)</i>:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Required amount<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Floating rate
series</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 3em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Fixed rate
series</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$0</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Seller&#x2019;s interest
percentage:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Required rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: SYMBOL">&#xB3;</font> 7</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: SYMBOL">&#xB3;</font>&#xA0;15</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Actual rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>25</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>36</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Paydown rate &#x2014;
3-month average:</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
<td valign="bottom"></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Required rate</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>N/A</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b><font style="FONT-FAMILY: SYMBOL">&#xB3;</font>&#xA0;60</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 2em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Actual rate</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>N/A</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>94.4</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>%&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The excess spread rate, net
including issuer rate collections in the Lending Trust is the sum
of the net cash flows of the (i)&#xA0;excess spread, net and
(ii)&#xA0;issuer rate, as a percentage of the outstanding
investors&#x2019; certificates. Excess spread, net is the net cash
flows from interest and fee collections allocated to the
investors&#x2019; interests after deducting the interest paid on
investors&#x2019; certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing
fees and other expenses. The deductions may be a greater amount
than the collections, resulting in negative spread losses. Excess
spread, net is reported by the Company in securitization income,
net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See above for the
disclosure of excess spread, net.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">The excess spread rate, net
in the Charge Trust is the net cash flows from the discounted
portion of principal collections allocated to the investors&#x2019;
interests after deducting the interest paid on investors&#x2019;
notes, credit losses, contractual servicing fees and other
expenses, as a percentage of the outstanding investors&#x2019;
notes.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">If the three-month average
excess spread rate, net including issuer rate collections falls
below the trigger level of 5 percent or 4 percent for the Lending
Trust and Charge Trust, respectively, the affected Trust is
required to fund a cash account in increasing amounts ($3 million
to $1.7 billion for the Lending Trust and $11 million to $170
million for the Charge Trust) depending on the severity by which
the excess spread rate, net falls below the trigger
level.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In the event of an early
amortization of the Lending Trust, the investor certificates would
be required to be repaid over an approximate four month period,
based on the estimated average life of the securitized loans.
Although the repayment of the investor certificates is non-recourse
to the Company, the Company would need an alternate source of
funding for the lending receivables assets.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">In the event of
an early amortization of the Charge Trust, the underlying investor
notes issued by the Charge Trust are required to be repaid over an
approximate one month period, based on the estimated average life
of the securitized receivable.</font></p>
</div>
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
8</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">OTHER
ASSETS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The following is a summary
of other assets as of December&#xA0;31:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="70%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="7%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid; BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Deferred tax assets,
net<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,979</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">3,470</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Goodwill</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,328</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,301</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Restricted cash<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(b)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,192</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">238</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Prepaid expenses<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(</sup><sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">c)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,114</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,712</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Derivative
assets<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>800</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,743</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Subordinated accrued
interest receivable</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>719</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">807</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other intangible assets, at
amortized cost</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>717</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">717</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,364</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,619</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>13,213</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">12,607</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Refer to Notes 17 and 12
for a discussion of deferred tax assets, net, and derivative
assets, respectively, as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and
2008.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(b)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes restricted cash of
$1.8 billion as of December&#xA0;31, 2009, which is held for
certain asset-backed securitization maturities that will occur in
the first quarter of 2010.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(c)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes prepaid miles and
reward points acquired from airline and other partners of
approximately $1.3 billion and $950 million, respectively, as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008. Of these amounts, approximately $889
million and $900 million as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, represented miles purchased from Delta that are
generally subject to certain restrictions and will be expensed as
used in the future.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">GOODWILL</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Goodwill represents the
excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair
value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company
assigns goodwill to its reporting units for the purpose of
impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as an operating
segment, or a business one level below an operating segment for
which complete, discrete financial information is available that
management regularly reviews. The Company evaluates goodwill for
impairment annually as of June&#xA0;30 and between annual tests if
events occur or circumstances change that more likely than not
reduce the fair value of reporting units below their carrying
amounts. The goodwill impairment test utilizes a two-step approach.
The first step identifies whether there is potential impairment by
comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying
amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit
is less than its carrying amount, the second step of the impairment
test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss.
Goodwill was not impaired as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and
2008.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Goodwill
impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an
assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can
be supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit
using widely accepted valuation techniques, such as the market
approach (earnings multiples or transaction multiples) or income
approach (discounted cash flow methods). The fair values of the
reporting units were determined using a combination of valuation
techniques consistent with the income approach and the market
approach.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">When preparing
discounted cash flow models under the income approach, the Company
uses internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows expected to
be generated by the reporting units. Actual results may differ from
forecasted results. The Company uses the expected cost of equity
financing, estimated using a capital asset pricing model, to
discount future cash flows for each reporting unit. The Company
believes the discount rates used appropriately reflect the risks
and uncertainties in the financial markets generally and
specifically in the Company&#x2019;s internally developed forecasts.
Further, to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived
from the discounted cash flow models, the Company also analyzes
market based multiples for similar industries of the reporting
unit, where available.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The changes in the carrying
amount of goodwill reported in the Company&#x2019;s reportable
operating segments were as follows. During 2009 and 2008, there
were no accumulated goodwill impairment losses.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="52%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="5%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">USCS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">ICS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GCS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">GNMS</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Corporate<br />
&amp; Other</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance as of
January&#xA0;1, 2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">175</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">519</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">771</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">27</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,508</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Acquisitions<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">828</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">828</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Dispositions</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other, including foreign
currency translation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(10</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(25</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#x2014;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(34</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Balance as of
December&#xA0;31, 2008</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">175</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">509</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">1,573</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">28</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">16</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2,301</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other, including foreign
currency translation</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>3</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>24</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#x2014;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>27</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>Balance as of
December&#xA0;31, 2009</b></font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>175</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>512</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,597</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>28</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>16</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2,328</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;&#xA0;</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes approximately $818
million related to the acquisition of General Electric
Company&#x2019;s commercial card and corporate purchasing
business.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">OTHER
INTANGIBLE ASSETS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Intangible assets are
amortized over their estimated useful lives of 1 to 22 years. The
Company reviews intangible assets for impairment quarterly and
whenever events and circumstances indicate that their carrying
amounts may not be recoverable. In addition, on an annual basis,
the Company performs an impairment evaluation of all intangible
assets by assessing the recoverability of the asset values based on
the cash flows generated by the relevant assets or asset groups. An
impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable
and exceeds the asset&#x2019;s fair value.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The components of other
intangible assets were as follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 12px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="55%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="4%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="9" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>2009</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="9" align="center"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2008</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accumulated<br />
Amortization</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Gross<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Accumulated<br />
Amortization</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Net<br />
Carrying<br />
Amount</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Customer
relationships<sup style="POSITION: relative; BOTTOM: 0.8ex; VERTICAL-ALIGN: baseline">(a)</sup></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>873</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(240</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>633</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">744</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(135</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">609</font></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Other</font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>145</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(61</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>84</b></font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">160</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(52</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">108</font></td>
</tr>
<tr style="FONT-SIZE: 1px">
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td>&#xA0;</td>
<td valign="bottom">&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
<td style="BORDER-TOP: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
&#xA0;</td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Total</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>1,018</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>(301</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>)&#xA0;</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>717</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">904</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(187</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" nowrap="nowrap"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">)&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">$</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">717</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 6px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table style="BORDER-COLLAPSE: collapse" border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="2%" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">(a)</font></td>
<td valign="top" align="left"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Includes approximately $265
million related to a customer intangible payment made in connection
with the renegotiated contract with Delta Air Lines.</font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Amortization expense for
the years ended December&#xA0;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $140
million, $83 million and $47 million, respectively. Intangible
assets acquired in 2009 and 2008 are being amortized, on average,
over 5 years and 8 years, respectively.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">Estimated amortization
expense for other intangible assets over the next five years is as
follows:</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 0.5pt solid; LINE-HEIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 2px">
&#xA0;</p>
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="100%" align="center">
<tr>
<td width="81%"></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td valign="bottom" width="2%"></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 1px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><i>(Millions)</i></font></p>
</td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2010</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2011</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2012</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2013</font></td>
<td valign="bottom"><font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" colspan="2" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">2014</font></td>
</tr>
<tr bgcolor="#CCEEFF">
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="top">
<p style="TEXT-INDENT: -1em; MARGIN-LEFT: 1em"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1">Estimated amortization
expense</font></p>
</td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>141</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>125</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>115</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>105</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font size="1">&#xA0;&#xA0;</font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>$</b></font></td>
<td style="BORDER-BOTTOM: #000000 1px solid" valign="bottom" align="right"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="1"><b>81</b></font></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; FONT-SIZE: 13px">
&#xA0;</p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">OTHER</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">The Company has $168
million and $141 million in affordable housing partnership
interests as of December&#xA0;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
included in other assets in the table above. The Company is a
limited partner and typically has a less than 50 percent interest
in the affordable housing partnerships. These partnership interests
are accounted for in accordance with GAAP governing equity method
investments and joint ventures.</font></p>
</div>
5313000000
-1429000000
-449000000
-4800000000
-6574000000
3389000000
6467000000
2408000000
19210000000
24523000000
857000000
13389000000
2151000000
400000000
1594000000
1745000000
340000000
3389000000
22000000
212000000
94000000
3390000000
<div>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">NOTE
2</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="4">ACQUISITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 6px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">ACQUISITIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Revolution
Money</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">On January&#xA0;15, 2010,
the Company purchased Revolution Money, a provider of secure
person-to-person payment services through an internet based
platform, for approximately $300 million. The majority of the
consideration paid is expected to be recorded as goodwill, with the
remainder to be allocated to finite-lived intangible assets and
other miscellaneous assets and liabilities.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">Corporate
Payment Services</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">On March&#xA0;28, 2008, the
Company purchased Corporate Payment Services (CPS), General
Electric Company&#x2019;s commercial card and corporate purchasing
business unit. The Company acquired $2.2 billion in assets and
assumed $63 million in liabilities. The total cash consideration of
$2.3 billion paid by the Company consisted of the contractual
purchase price of approximately $1.1 billion plus the repayment of
CPS&#x2019; $1.2 billion in outstanding debt as of the acquisition
date.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 13px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" color="#52A2DD" size="2">DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px"><font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">On September&#xA0;18, 2007,
the Company entered into an agreement to sell its international
banking subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd. (AEB) to Standard
Chartered PLC (Standard Chartered) and to sell American Express
International Deposit Company (AEIDC) through a put/call agreement
to Standard Chartered 18 months after the close of the AEB sale.
The sale of AEB was completed on February&#xA0;29, 2008. In the
third quarter of 2008, AEIDC qualified to be reported as a
discontinued operation. The sale of AEIDC was completed on
September&#xA0;10, 2009.</font></p>
<p style="MARGIN-TOP: 0px; MARGIN-BOTTOM: 0px; TEXT-INDENT: 2%">
<font style="FONT-FAMILY: Times New Roman" size="2">For all periods
presented, all of the operating results, assets and liabilities,
and cash flows of AEB (except for certain components of AEB that
were not sold) and AEIDC have been removed from the
Corporate&#xA0;&amp; Other segment and are presented separately in
discontinued operations in the Company&#x2019;s Consolidated
Financial Statements. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations
unless otherwise noted.</font></p>
</div>
-10000000
-354000000
52000000
1206000000
121000000
527000000
232000000
232000000
1000000
4000000
-232000000
3389000000
3157000000
855000000
74000000
232000000
2130000000
157000000
108000000
5282000000
-6653000000
2625000000
129000000
0.72
1532000000
712000000
836000000
2.33
2.32
20000000
2307000000
2871000000
2.47
2.47
-172000000
-0.14
-0.15
710000000
885000000
358000000
2256000000
-101000000
-33000000
7201000000
771000000
6159000000
3555000000
454000000
483000000
271000000
3646000000
6090000000
-10440000000
7561000000
8141000000
2699000000
18986000000
24719000000
2157000000
3581000000
-334000000
-113000000
-9000000
-711000000
3122000000
-5940000000
218000000
0
836000000
4589000000
14724000000
977000000
176000000
19213000000
0
9620000000
4657000000
27000000
9619000000
4231000000
5798000000
204000000
13787000000
229000000
334000000
218000000
1156000000
1154000000
5798000000
442000000
-770000000
-4670000000
-8693000000
0
7361000000
2413000000
22567000000
28365000000
1363000000
15025000000
2150000000
1070000000
2010000000
2618000000
15000000
0
0
0
-334000000
-113000000
-9000000
-711000000
3000000
374000000
42000000
1000000
1000000
836000000
2699000000
-44000000
175000000
0000004962
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2008-01-01
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2008-01-01
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2008-01-01
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2008-01-01
2008-12-31
0000004962
2008-01-01
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2009-01-01
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:PreferredStockMember
2009-01-01
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2009-01-01
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2009-01-01
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2009-01-01
2009-12-31
0000004962
2009-01-01
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2007-01-01
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2007-01-01
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2007-01-01
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2007-01-01
2007-12-31
0000004962
2007-01-01
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:PreferredStockMember
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2009-12-31
0000004962
2009-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:PreferredStockMember
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2008-12-31
0000004962
2008-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:PreferredStockMember
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2007-12-31
0000004962
2007-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:RetainedEarningsMember
2006-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:PreferredStockMember
2006-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:CommonStockMember
2006-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AdditionalPaidInCapitalMember
2006-12-31
0000004962
us-gaap:AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeMember
2006-12-31
0000004962
2006-12-31
0000004962
2009-06-30
0000004962
2010-02-22
shares
iso4217:USD
iso4217:USD
shares
Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $22 million, $15 million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
EX-101.SCH

10

axp-20091231.xsd

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

xml version="1.0" encoding="US-ASCII"?
  EDGAR Online I-Metrix Xcelerate Taxonomy Schema, based on XBRL 2.1  http://www.edgar-online.com/  
  Version: 6.3.11 
  Round: b5d2f8e6-7087-4dbd-8a2a-fd1ce81fa8c1 
  Creation date: 2010-02-25T09:10Z 
  Copyright (c) 2005-2010 EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
101 - Statement - Statement Of Income Interest Based Revenue
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
102 - Statement - Statement Of Income Interest Based Revenue (Parenthetical)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
103 - Statement - Statement Of Financial Position Unclassified - Deposit Based Operations
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
104 - Statement - Statement Of Financial Position Unclassified - Deposit Based Operations (Parenthetical)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
105 - Statement - Statement Of Cash Flows Indirect Deposit Based Operations
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
106 - Statement - Statement Of Cash Flows Indirect Deposit Based Operations (Parenthetical)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
107 - Statement - Statement Of Shareholders Equity And Other Comprehensive Income
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
108 - Statement - Statement Of Shareholders Equity And Other Comprehensive Income (Parenthetical)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
109 - Disclosure - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
110 - Disclosure - ACQUISITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
111 - Disclosure - FAIR VALUES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
112 - Disclosure - ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
113 - Disclosure - LOANS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
114 - Disclosure - INVESTMENT SECURITIES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
115 - Disclosure - ASSET SECURITIZATIONS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
116 - Disclosure - OTHER ASSETS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
117 - Disclosure - CUSTOMER DEPOSITS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
118 - Disclosure - DEBT
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
119 - Disclosure - OTHER LIABILITIES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
120 - Disclosure - DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
121 - Disclosure - GUARANTEES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
122 - Disclosure - COMMON AND PREFERRED SHARES AND WARRANTS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
123 - Disclosure - CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
124 - Disclosure - RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
125 - Disclosure - INCOME TAXES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
126 - Disclosure - EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
127 - Disclosure - DETAILS OF CERTAIN CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME LINES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
128 - Disclosure - STOCK PLANS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
129 - Disclosure - RETIREMENT PLANS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
130 - Disclosure - SIGNIFICANT CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
131 - Disclosure - REGULATORY MATTERS AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
132 - Disclosure - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
133 - Disclosure - REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
134 - Disclosure - PARENT COMPANY
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
135 - Disclosure - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
136 - Disclosure - Document Information
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
137 - Disclosure - Entity Information
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
138 - Disclosure - Common Domain Members
link:calculationLink
link:presentationLink
link:definitionLink
EX-101.CAL

11

axp-20091231_cal.xml

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

xml version="1.0" encoding="US-ASCII"?
  EDGAR Online I-Metrix Xcelerate Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase, based on XBRL 2.1  http://www.edgar-online.com/  
  Version: 6.3.11 
  Round: b5d2f8e6-7087-4dbd-8a2a-fd1ce81fa8c1 
  Creation date: 2010-02-25T09:10Z 
  Copyright (c) 2005-2010 EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
EX-101.DEF

12

axp-20091231_def.xml

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

xml version="1.0" encoding="US-ASCII"?
  EDGAR Online I-Metrix Xcelerate Taxonomy Definition Linkbase, based on XBRL 2.1  http://www.edgar-online.com/  
  Version: 6.3.11 
  Round: b5d2f8e6-7087-4dbd-8a2a-fd1ce81fa8c1 
  Creation date: 2010-02-25T09:10Z 
  Copyright (c) 2005-2010 EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
EX-101.LAB

13

axp-20091231_lab.xml

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

xml version="1.0" encoding="US-ASCII"?
  EDGAR Online I-Metrix Xcelerate Taxonomy Labels Linkbase, based on XBRL 2.1  http://www.edgar-online.com/  
  Version: 6.3.11 
  Round: b5d2f8e6-7087-4dbd-8a2a-fd1ce81fa8c1 
  Creation date: 2010-02-25T09:10Z 
  Copyright (c) 2005-2010 EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Accounts payable
Accounts Receivable, Net [Abstract]
Accounts receivable
Premises and equipment, accumulated depreciation
Net unrealized securities gains (losses), net of tax: 2009, $(291); 2008, $458
Net unrealized derivatives losses, net of tax: 2009, $15; 2008, $44
Net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit costs, net of tax: 2009, $244; 2008, $216
Net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit costs, net of tax: 2009, $244; 2008, $216
Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax: 2009, $31; 2008, $64
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss
Total accumulated other comprehensive loss
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax [Abstract]
Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income
Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
This element may be used to capture disclosures pertaining to acquisitions and dispositions. For acquisitions, description of a business acquisition (or series of individually immaterial business combinations) planned, initiated, or completed during the period, including background, timing, and allocation of acquisition costs. For dispositions, disclosures include the facts and circumstances leading to the completed or expected disposal, manner and timing of disposal, the gain or loss recognized in the income statement and the income statement caption that includes that gain or loss, amounts of revenues and pretax profit or loss reported in discontinued operations; the segment in which the disposal group was reported, and the classification (whether sold or classified as held for sale) and carrying value of the assets and liabilities c
omprising the disposal group. Includes all disposal groups, including those classified as components of the entity (discontinued operations).
ACQUISITIONS AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Additional Paid in Capital
Additional paid-in capital
Additional Paid-in Capital
Adjustments to reconcile income from continuing operations to net cash provided by operating activities
Amendment Flag
Total assets
Total assets
Assets
This element may be used to capture disclosure of cardmember receivables and loans transferred to a trust whereby the trust then issues securities to third-party investors, and these securities are collateralized by the transferred assets.
ASSET SECURITIZATIONS
Assets of discontinued operations
Available-for-sale Securities
Investment securities
Available-for-sale Securities [Text Block]
INVESTMENT SECURITIES
Reserves for losses relating to cardmember loans represent management's best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company's outstanding portfolio of loans.
Cardmember loans, reserves
Cardmember loans represent amounts due from lending product customers. Cardmember loans are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for cardmember losses, unamortized net card fees and include accrued interest receivable and fees as of the balance sheet date.
Cardmember loans, less reserves: 2009, $3,268; 2008, $2,570
Cardmember loans, less reserves: 2009, $3,268; 2008, $2,570
Cardmember receivables represent amounts due from charge card customers. Cardmember receivable balances are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for losses, and includes principal and any related accrued fees.
Cardmember receivables, less reserves: 2009, $546; 2008, $810
Reserves for losses relating to cardmember receivables represent management's best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company's outstanding portfolio of receivables.
Cardmember receivables, reserves
Cash and Cash Equivalents, at Carrying Value
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year includes cash of discontinued operations: 2009, $0; 2008, $3; 2007, $6,390
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year includes cash of discontinued operations: 2009, $3; 2008, $6,390; 2007, $4,445
Cash and cash equivalents
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash due from banks
Cash and cash equivalents balance from discontinued operations included in the cash and cash equivalent balance.
Cash Balance of Discontinued Operations
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year, cash of discontinued operations
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year, cash of discontinued operations
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Federal Funds Sold
Total
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities attributable to discontinued operations
Net cash provided by investing activities attributable to discontinued operations
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities attributable to discontinued operations
Commitments and contingencies (see Note 24)
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Common, per share
Common Shares
Common shares, par value
Common shares, authorized
Common shares, issued
Common shares, outstanding
Common shares, $.20 par value, authorized 3.6 billion shares; issued and outstanding 1,192 million shares in 2009 and 1,160 million shares in 2008
Total comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income
Comprehensive income
CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME
SIGNIFICANT CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS
PARENT COMPANY
Effect of change in accounting principle
Current Fiscal Year End Date
DEBT
Includes the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily pertaining to continuing operations, mark to market adjustments on available for sale securities, and foreign exchange gains or losses; cost of acquisitions; and other.
Deferred taxes, acquisition costs and other
Deposit Liabilities Disclosures [Text Block]
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS
Customer deposits
Depreciation and amortization
DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
STOCK PLANS
Represents revenue earned from fees charged to merchants with whom the Company has entered into a card acceptance agreement for processing cardmember transactions. The discount fee generally is deducted from the Company's payment reimbursing the merchant for cardmember purchases. Such amounts are reduced by contra-revenue such as payments to third-party card issuing partners, cash-back reward costs, and corporate incentive payments.
Discount revenue
Cash dividends declared
Common, $0.72 in 2009, $0.72 in 2008 and $0.63 in 2007 per share
Common, $0.72 in 2009, $0.72 in 2008 and $0.63 in 2007 per share
Dividends, Preferred Stock
Preferred shares
Document Information [Text Block]
Document Period End Date
Document Type
Earnings Per Share, Basic
Net income attributable to common shareholders
Earnings per Common Share - Basic: (Note 18)
Net income attributable to common shareholders
Net income attributable to common shareholders
Earnings per Common Share - Diluted: (Note 18)
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
Entity Central Index Key
Entity Common Stock, Shares Outstanding
Entity Current Reporting Status
Entity [Domain]
Entity Filer Category
Entity Public Float
Entity Registrant Name
Entity [Text Block]
Entity Voluntary Filers
Entity Well-known Seasoned Issuer
Equity Component [Domain]
FAIR VALUES
Other commissions and fees
The tax effect from accumulated adjustment, that results from the process of translating subsidiary financial statements and foreign equity investments into the reporting currency from the functional currency of the reporting entity, net of reclassification of realized foreign currency translation gains (losses).
Foreign currency translation adjustments, tax
Earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items, primarily in-substance dividends for non-controlling interests in certain consolidated subsidiaries.
Income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items
Income from continuing operations
Income from continuing operations
Adjustment to retained earnings for the increase in carrying amount of redeemable preferred shares that is classified as temporary equity.
Income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, accelerated preferred dividend accretion
The aggregate amount of preferred share dividends and related accretion on the preferred shares discount.
Income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, preferred share dividends and related accretion
Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations, Per Basic Share
Income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders
Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations, Per Diluted Share
Income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax
Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax, Per Basic Share
Loss from discontinued operations
Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax, Per Diluted Share
Loss from discontinued operations
Income Statement [Abstract]
INCOME TAXES
Income tax provision
Accounts payable and other liabilities
Net change in interest-bearing deposits
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and dispositions:
Increase (Decrease) in Other Operating Assets
Other assets
Other receivables
Other receivables
Net (increase) decrease in restricted cash
Net (increase) decrease in restricted cash
Change in unencashed travelers cheques outstanding between reporting periods.
Increase Decrease Travelers Cheques Outstanding
Travelers Cheques outstanding
Preferred share accretion
Preferred share accretion
Total interest income
Total interest income
Interest income
Interest and dividends on investment securities
Interest and fees on loans
Interest-bearing deposits in other banks (including securities purchased under resale agreements: 2009, $212; 2008, $141)
Total interest expense
Total interest expense
Interest expense
Deposits
Interest expense on the Company's long-term debt and on all other items not previously classified.
Long-term debt and other
Interest Expense, Short-term Borrowings
Short-term borrowings
Deposits with banks and other
Net interest income
Net interest income
Salaries and employee benefits
Legal Entity [Axis]
Total liabilities
Total liabilities
Liabilities
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
Liabilities of discontinued operations
Loans and Leases Receivable, Net Reported Amount [Abstract]
Loans
Loans, Notes, Trade and Other Receivables Disclosure [Text Block]
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Long-term debt
Marketing and promotion expense includes advertising costs. Cardmember rewards expense includes the costs of rewards programs (including Membership Rewards). Cardmember services expense includes protection plans and complimentary services provided to cardmembers.
Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services
The cash outflow from the maturity of securitized debt. Securitization is the structured process whereby interests in loans and other receivables are packaged, underwritten, and sold in the form of asset-backed securities.
Maturities of cardmember loan securitizations
Represents the charge card membership fees earned during the period. These fees are recognized as revenue over the covered card membership period (typically one year), net of provision for projected refunds for cancellation of card membership.
Net card fees
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
Cash Flows from Financing Activities
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
Cash Flows from Investing Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities
Net cash provided by operating activities
Cash Flows from Operating Activities
The net cash inflow (outflow) for borrowing having original maturities of twelve months or less.
Net (decrease) increase in short-term borrowings
Net income
Net income
The tax effect from the total change, in accumulated gains and losses from derivative instruments designated and qualifying as the effective portion of cash flow hedges. Includes an entity's share of an equity investee's increase (decrease) in deferred hedging gains or losses.
Net unrealized derivatives losses, tax
The tax effect from the total of net (gain) loss, prior service cost (credit), and transition assets (obligations), as well as minimum pension liability, included in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan(s) because they have yet to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.
Net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit costs, tax
The tax effect from accumulated appreciation or loss in value of the total unsold securities at the end of an accounting period.
Net unrealized securities gains (losses), tax
Total
Total
Expenses
Total non-interest revenues
Total non-interest revenues
Non-interest revenues
Noninterest Income, Other Operating Income
Other
Notes to Financial Statements [Abstract]
Notes to Financial Statements [Abstract]
Pretax income from continuing operations
Pretax income from continuing operations
Other assets
This element may be used to capture disclosures relating to other assets held on the Company's Balance Sheets. Examples include deferred tax assets-net, goodwill, derivative assets, prepaid expenses, subordinated accrued interest receivable, other intangible assets at amortized cost, restricted cash, or any other assets not presented separately on the face of the balance sheet. Disclosures also include goodwill and intangible rollforward, including acquisitions, dispositions, and impairment, as applicable. This element may be used as a single block of text to encapsulate the entire disclosure including data and tables.
Other Assets Disclosure [Text Block]
OTHER ASSETS
Net unrealized pension and other post retirement benefit gains (losses)
Foreign currency translation adjustments, including hedge gains (losses)
Change in net unrealized derivatives gains (losses)
Change in net unrealized securities gains (losses)
DETAILS OF CERTAIN CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME LINES
Other liabilities
Other Liabilities Disclosure [Text Block]
OTHER LIABILITIES
The amount of other loans not otherwise specified in the taxonomy, net of reserves for losses, where applicable.
Other, less reserves: 2009, $27; 2008, $39
Other, net
Carrying amounts due as of the balance sheet date from parties or arising from transactions not otherwise specified in the taxonomy, net of reserves for losses, where applicable.
Other receivables, less reserves: 2009, $109; 2008, $118
Other receivables, less reserves: 2009, $109; 2008, $118
Reserves for losses relating to other receivables represent management's best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company's outstanding portfolio of other receivables.
Other receivables, reserves
Reserves for losses relating to other loans represent management's best estimate of the losses inherent in the Company's outstanding portfolio of other loans.
Other, reserves
Parent Company [Member]
Net decrease (increase) in cardmember loans/receivables
Net decrease (increase) in cardmember loans/receivables
Repurchase of American Express common shares
Repurchase of American Express common shares
Repurchase of American Express stock warrants
Repurchase of American Express stock warrants
Dividends paid
Dividends paid
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired
Purchase of investments
Purchase of investments
Purchase of premises and equipment
Purchase of premises and equipment
RETIREMENT PLANS
Preferred Shares
Issuance of American Express common shares
Issuance of long-term debt
Issuance of American Express Series A preferred shares and warrants
Maturity and redemption of investments
Sale of investments
Sale of premises and equipment
Proceeds from cardmember loan securitizations
Comprised of technology related outsourcing costs, consulting costs for a variety of services, legal fees paid to outside attorneys, accountant fees and various other fees paid to third parties for services performed.
Professional services
Premises and equipment - at cost, less accumulated depreciation: 2009, $4,130; 2008, $3,743
Cardmember loans
Total provisions for losses
Total provisions for losses
Provision for Loan, Lease, and Other Losses [Abstract]
Provisions for losses
The sum of the periodic provision charged to operations based on an assessment of the uncollectibility of loan and receivable portfolios, net of recoveries.
Provision for Losses
Provisions for losses
Provision for Other Losses
Other
The sum of the periodic provision charged to operations, based on an assessment of the uncollectibility of the cardmember receivable portfolio, the offset to which is either added to or deducted from the allowance account for the purpose of reducing receivables to an amount that approximates their net realizable value (the amount expected to be collected).
Charge card
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
REGULATORY MATTERS AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY
The cash outflows for the repurchase of preferred stock.
Repurchase of American Express Series A preferred shares
Repurchase of American Express Series A preferred shares
Principal payments on long-term debt
Principal payments on long-term debt
Value of preferred shares repurchased by the entity at the exercise price or redemption price.
Income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, due to the repurchase of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program
The aggregate amount paid by the entity to reacquire the right to purchase equity shares at a predetermined price, usually issued together with corporate debt or preferred shares.
Repurchase of warrants
Repurchase of warrants
RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit)
Retained earnings
Retained Earnings
Revenues
Schedule of Accounts, Notes, Loans and Financing Receivable [Text Block]
LOANS
GUARANTEES
COMMON AND PREFERRED SHARES AND WARRANTS
Interest-bearing deposits in other banks, securities purchased under resale agreements
Non-credit provision components of the net gains or losses from securitization activities, excess spread related to securitized cardmember loans, changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip, and servicing income, net of related discounts or fees. Excess spread, which is recognized as earned, is the net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the third-party investors' interests.
Securitization income, net
REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS
Stock-based compensation
Short-term borrowings
Includes other highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less, not categorized above.
Short-term investment securities
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Statement, Equity Components [Axis]
Statement [Line Items]
Statement of Cash Flows [Abstract]
Statement of Financial Position [Abstract]
Statement of Stockholders' Equity [Abstract]
Statement [Table]
Total shareholders' equity
Ending Balances
Beginning Balances
Total shareholders' equity
Shareholders' Equity
Other changes, primarily employee plans
Issuance of common shares
The aggregate amount of the issuance of preferred stock and common stock warrants.
Issuance of preferred shares and common stock warrants
Repurchase of preferred shares
Repurchase of preferred shares
Repurchase of common shares
Repurchase of common shares
Revenues from discount revenue, net card fees, travel commissions and fees, other commissions and fees, securitization income, net, other related income, and net interest income during the period.
Total Revenues Net Of Interest Expense
Total revenues net of interest expense
Revenues from discount revenue, net card fees, travel commissions and fees, other commissions and fees, securitization, other related income, and net interest income offset by provisions for losses during the period.
Total Revenues Net Of Interest Expense After Provisions For Losses
Total revenues net of interest expense after provisions for losses
Trading Symbol
Commissions and fees earned by charging clients transaction or management fees for selling and arranging travel and travel management services. Client transaction fee revenue is recognized at the time the client books the travel arrangements. Travel management services revenue is recognized over the contractual term of the agreement. The Company's travel suppliers (for example, airlines, hotels, car rental companies) pay commissions and fees on tickets issued, sales and other services based on contractual agreements. Commissions and fees from travel suppliers are generally recognized at the time a ticket is purchased or over the term of the contract. Commissions and fees that are based on actual usage that is unknown at time of purchase (for example, hotel and car rentals), are recognized when cash is received.
Travel commissions and fees
Carrying amount as of the balance sheet date of unencashed travelers cheques issued by the Company, as its liability to holders of the cheques.
Travelers Cheques outstanding
Diluted
Average common shares outstanding for earnings per common share:
Basic
EX-101.PRE

14

axp-20091231_pre.xml

XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

xml version="1.0" encoding="US-ASCII"?
  EDGAR Online I-Metrix Xcelerate Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase, based on XBRL 2.1  http://www.edgar-online.com/  
  Version: 6.3.11 
  Round: b5d2f8e6-7087-4dbd-8a2a-fd1ce81fa8c1 
  Creation date: 2010-02-25T09:10Z 
  Copyright (c) 2005-2010 EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GRAPHIC

15

g35925g16d58.jpg

GRAPHIC


begin 644 g35925g16d58.jpg
M_]C_X``02D9)1@`!`@$`8`!@``#_[1(<4&AO;=&]S:&]P(#,N,``X0DE-`^T`
M`````!``8`````$``0!@`````0`!.$))300-```````$````'CA"24T$&0``
M````!````!XX0DE-`_,```````D```````````$`.$))300*```````!```X
M0DE-)Q````````H``0`````````".$))30/U``````!(`"]F9@`!`&QF9;@`&
M```````!`"]F9@`!`*&9F@`&```````!`#(````!`%H````&```````!`#4`
M```!`"T````&```````!.$))30/X``````!P``#_____________________
M________`^@`````_____________________________P/H`````/______
M______________________\#Z`````#_____________________________
M`^@``#A"24T$"```````$`````$```)````"0``````X0DE-!!X```````0`
M````.$))300:``````!M````!@``````````````O@```-L````&`&<`,0`V
M`&0`-0`X`````0`````````````````````````!``````````````#;````
MO@`````````````````````````````````````````````X0DE-!!$`````
M``$!`#A"24T$%```````!`````(X0DE-!`P`````#W\````!````<````&$`
M``%0``!_4```#V,`&``!_]C_X``02D9)1@`!`@$`2`!(``#_[@`.061O8F4`
M9(`````!_]L`A``,"`@("0@,"0D,$0L*"Q$5#PP,#Q48$Q,5$Q,8$0P,#`P,
M#!$,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,`0T+"PT.#1`.#A`4#@X.
M%!0.#@X.%!$,#`P,#!$1#`P,#`P,$0P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,#`P,
M#`P,#`S_P``1"`!A`'`#`2(``A$!`Q$!_]T`!``'_\0!/P```04!`0$!`0$`
M`````````P`!`@0%!@<("0H+`0`!!0$!`0$!`0`````````!``(#!`4&!P@)
M"@L0``$$`0,"!`(%!P8(!0,,,P$``A$#!"$2,05!46$3(G&!,@84D:&Q0B;,D
M%5+!8C,T
)E\K.$P]-U
MX_-&)Y2DA;25Q-3D]*6UQ=7E]59F=H:6IK;&UN;V-T=79W>'EZ>WQ]?G]Q$`
M`@(!`@0$`P0%!@<'!@4U`0`"$0,A,1($05%A<2(3!3*!D12AL4(CP5+1\#,D
M8N%R@I)#4Q5C
+RLX3#TW7C\T:4
MI(6TE<34Y/2EM<75Y?569G:&EJ;:VQM;F]B
7I[?'_]H`#`,!``(1
M`Q$`/P#ML+`P'X=+WXM#GN9+G.JK))),N
/\`]LU_^00,
M#(R!A4`8=Q`8-0^B#J?'(1_M.1_W"N_S\?\`]Z$5*_9W3O\`N'C_`/;-?_D$
M+*Q^CXF-;E9&+CLHH;OL?Z%9AH_.TK1?M.1_W"N_S\?_`-Z$XRLD&1A72/Y=
M'_O2DIKX]/2LC.R<%F!4V[$],V%U%6TMMW^F^MS`_P#T3_YUM5G^$V>E8Q4\
M+J7U7S&.>VG'H:UK7DY%--8VO==6WW>]OTL3(]C_`'^G7ZW\S[T<8-)R79=_
M3[\K(
^_&8WTKZ=S<=]K_`$O5]2S8JUG1*+.CLZ,[%S/LC'6/
M,78P>\VBUK_5?ZOO_I#MGL_T:"FU9;]6:KA0_P"PBXO-?IAE1
FRB[?ZG[B;-LZ#A=/LZD_%HNQ:0UUCJ**K#M<&O;\`4:UK?>QM3VW^W_`?
MI%`X#F%MM&+DC(JR;LZIS[,
YEE+VW-9
J9^K^%`:S!RZVMKIIJ#;L?]&W;'KOQ*O3W7.]SL?-R:[76^I]/U$[N@8
MFHKQ,RI@DTL;=BEM1-N/F[Z1999N_6<*FS]8]=G\Y7_-I*;6/9T3)R78]
M_8^RIUPQZC4'5UT9/\Z!]"^G+K=CO_PGO5S]G=._[AX__;-?_D%7PJ3@^N,?
M"R`W)M]=[39C0';*L?;6UES&LJ;]/'K]BL?:
`3\/-4'.ZU6'%M;;K3DN;L
RI^US/T3FOW?Z3U&565;$-G3^IL#0.I
M.+60&L;#-K=H=5#/:_=_1Z[L?=_PWVG^=04LS]OV/M;D[<5KL9HJ?0&/+,AVQ
MSG^G>Y^_[/NM9LL_0W5U?\-[$'_63V@TXNYHFQP<2UYV7.]DECZ:?M#<9GT'
MVU4V?X7]*H5])ZI4STJNJ.94/4VM%9D>H6O;#S9N_0[;/3_XU&_9V<<5E)SG
M.NKO^T_:"TDN(>VUE%C/4_HNWU*;*F.24L+>OES&NHQF-;
ZEK7EVTDNWN96
MYS-_\E,Q_6W8-#;:?2S6.I^UD.K=OKD_:?L;_H
MM:Q_Z6NK^=_0_I%!_3^N
M%[6U]3<&&MP;=9LU%@>Q];_2GWMMK]5C_`'_H/\'^B_FYLZ5U5C"UG4G@[G$1
M5[0'-M_,W'WMR;:[_P#A/2])%2YLZ\++A7C4NIKGT;7N&^P!K-OJ"NQK*['O
M]7^1_P`6A_\`9'6*3Z==KCC4"UMA:T?:/TWVVP>GM_[J_0_0_P`YZ7Z1&?TW
M-^WXF7]J/I8K/3=4]CB;-W](M-OJ#]+9^BV.]/\`1_IJO\+^B$WI&34;G8^<
M^E][[K'EH);-EGJXH#'/]C<6E]M#]G\_ZGK?X"CTPI1R/K)[XP\;1KC7-LR[
M:75UF'M_PFUC[?\`SM:-;G.;[P6N!+3(`G:=OJ-:UUFVNV/4K]_T/IJ@<#JQ
MB.JO$$F?3&NM99N;NV_09;58ROT_4]7U?T=N]/5@=3;=6ZWJ=EM37`OJV!I<
MT;O8;&GSKWOV;_I/^V]A4Z"K]1_Y.S/\`PO=_Y[>K"K]1_P"3LS_PO=_Y[>DI
M_]'O>G_T#'_XL?E*L*OT_P#H&/\`\6/RE6$5*22224I"R2T,:7<;A^0HJKYN
M2W%I;:X'Z8:"V)!,_O\`M[)*0WOKV:D?>L3.?7K[A]ZW!FA];;02&O;$ZEHY:
M\_1_?T=9_P`6S_@U7NR7DAM;O=(V@N83H=VWZ/O_`)?^D_X+WI*:7U2+3=G;
M3.E7>>]BZ)971[#9D7N)D-JK:TD@NB7[=VQK=W]=WOWK524I))))2E7ZC_R=
MF?\`A>[_`,]O5A5^H_\`)V9_X7N_\]O24__2[WI_]`Q_^+'Y2K"K]/\`Z!C_
M`/%C\I5A%2DD@">-5E9'4LK-NNP.AEAMI=Z65U)XWX^._P#/JJ;]'/ZA6W_M
M.QWH8W_:RS_`)*9]8ZI;C#[#TUK
^
MS^8]=_Z)9^>_JS/JUBV=6(=U&RUK;\AE3`&UEPL;
2'5<]C`QC[&M;:(:W9(`\-6(%O6>
MJ0`+KSMU;+22#X[G,+EW9ZACM;N=E,#8<9]0<,_G8]WN]/\`/4:^I4V.I8+'
MAV1CG+9N#FQ2-GZ2[=_,_P`\S]'9_+_T;TE/*?5R[J^;B]79CWOIS&4UG#M<
MQH`LFY[6Q;7Z;J[7MV6[O](MKHO4
SV7>@S
MVY5?\]6_])Z?H>FM)^?B``V950!C:76-UW_0C<[\^%#J'3\7J.-]ERV%S6O%
ME;FDLLJM9_-Y&-
#UEX>R\[<+JH`;7:_MBY
MS6^S#ZA_H_\`M)F_X'T[OU=:Q!'(CXI*4J_4?^3LS_PO=_Y[>K"K]1_Y.S/_
M``O=_P">WI*?_]/O,.RNOIM-EKFUULJW/>XAK6@3+GN=]%JC^U^D?]SL?_MU
MO]ZKY'_B:L_\+?Q6OU.^_'QO6ILKJVN:'.M:Y[3N/IM9MJ]_NL>Q)3S'77#J
M>1ALQ>N8V#@TESLMC;3ZE^[V/QR:7T^G3Z&]OJ>KZGJ6?\&M2GJ;'0<:EF/C9
M6+1CTC;54RQC6M;^ZUK40=2S1I9G].#V1O`W#B19]*[V>Y:/3K
Y^YV_>DI`Q[7-:]C@]CP'-<""US2):YI^BYCFK,S\+HV%@-M
MOQ768N&QM;6!SW>G0"UUFQCK/YC&JK;]5]?\`W'I].O\`T:I_\Y,+I.)T7#OI
MR;+
W_NKC>K>KCNN]-?&_&SG;9C=T_*,2-CN:/SF>
MU%37N'U6;ZC,A@9ZVN06FTL&QWJ;[[,BD^E7^ER6[_3=_.9-==JF]_P!5K'ND
MLFX-8YM0M`<`YV0V:L?:SZ=WVKU=G^$^U6_OJ8ZOT8.+AA98<222.FY$RXL<
M\_T?\]U53G_\56F_:W1=?U'+U$'_`"9D
IHC^C_`.A=Z/\`Q7Z-)2^%TWHV
M;3B]1Q\<5TVL]5M'+7%X;'J:N:_T]KO96[T+;'V?SBUM2?$E9E?7.F,:*ZL;
M.K8"8:SIV2UHD[G0QE'YSG;E'HGUBP^MMRAC57TOQ7/KL]:MS6RTEGLNCT]_
M[V._9DU?GU)*;MUG3KZGX^19CW4V`LMJ
^MS7-/TF/:YRR_J]@6='&33D]8J
MZAC7.;9C[W@65;6^D:)MOR-]'I,I]/\`2_X/^6M+!P\9OU>Q;:\?&]5N+4[=
M
D"!2ZB'D_2W>KNJK;7[?
M3^@ZQ9S6M9T3/8P!K6GJ(:T"`!ZN7P`DI__4[+(_\3=G_A;^*U;:>J.<0VRA
M]3G.)%C"8;H:&L;:US?
EZ=G[KON*7IV?NN^XI*5N=XG[U'AA:-&@.@#0:@D
MZ!2].S]UWW%/Z=G[A^XI*08=>79]7L)F*:O4=C5`MO:7,+36&N;:YK4%_2\PV
MB_[%T\V$!K]V\RT,>T-:[T_9ML
QC`&L;:V_)`
M``AK6M%_M:U2_9=/[N1_[$9/_I=!38Z;1FXY
H_P#GW+5K]ET_NY'_`+$9/_I=0R\5N/TG+JJK
HKS-))+Z8DO,TDE/IB2\S22
M4^F)+S-))3Z8DO,TDE/IB2\S224^F*%O\S;_`,6__J7+S9))3__9`#A"24T$
M(0``````50````$!````#P!!`&0`;P!B`&4`(`!0`&@`;P!T`&\`
)BXV!DB)!=(B
T7#.;*UCUZ
ML.:OFY._?MJ83FEZWELI=_9N\FP[.W>U)`_QIP=G#V>TMY"4CUIP_5)R"RP]
M``!#C=J48$NNN3A-\/([9W"=%_!?J=]G2G_D=RPLD9U7;F.X3HOX+]3OLZ4_
M\CN(62&J;[
U=B-C:Q\P_6&EPW;]0TCAE\.5@$2_70,?9V"5UK"8XPFN<7EQ4V<)`
MHE4CDLE&'($Y)B=O)7JB#BT:`TDM0>FDO4E)I).QN'*)Y;93N3U7J[L7:<*<
M`-DOJ^CK6LB,*CD2)Q2>WH)!'Z4M)#BA7IU!"ML4KVHLM27C`#!D"%@!A8\X
M&'3HF9M4M+F5#:U>8AL-/;&\O".ER>'WB#:>L)O+-D8
O6(V;@#+.
MBG:(=D)C,7>%`C2.R/Y2LPP:`XLL\)IY&095S]O,W=:DKJ1!9A5V^NM]QSR#
M5]`I0Y.SE:\/F4[IYW$T&)XW:\;KV0NT5F:B(.IAW22L87UA6%&)'0MM5&%)
MQ*"BS$V0G"J:9AVM*6
.<-E+PD$B;75Q71^OEBP1F""18-.0%@!D2@>>93
\#;TS"UM3@1$I09#EL7
.DM:%499[%JR)/KA'9+.8NM<>IDIL9E[:,TY,Y`;G/L`P+0I1(Q
M8/YJ49=K7`A5)?,7
L4H-:^#H?:-VOY%)7*9UNJ9DDV8:Q9$IL8EE;
MOKLF2N1:%Q?>W`/";U5&4J=*=E,22J(.59U548&M;,6W3BH)B@W4I2:N#A"('
M,7$J0R$J[6"L)@-A$&)SJ;4.V%*+/:(.YN1!R5_5P0Y5@1HS4X4+@!(K$A-5
MEHU0B;*,Z6JLA=JQL/NML_J'H;L+&IC;"2Y3-[E?T>Q,4*K7M)$ZJEJOF1P%X
M.87).8:BKH4.@#">N-5FB!A8K`466,:@PI&KB;:3-7*U77(N>YHYC@#@#@#@
M#@%3G[X'\6+^1AS/'MZ'3Z_SU/_1]3NJ'S?V;]
A='P][UDV:9;PA=D5%*9._O
)M-*8FJ/VGWEU5
M^U5MM0311\K+MG8JA[HIL"JUKOMB05\W&V;\V&DJ7;,QE
6G`-.5D!9H\<:<8"N
:SZE551LV+KXJ?U[%S8\X/,&<'F0Q
M9\6ISU8V]]/4.T7@;T>8>6<#!Y`T^!@P#J!/'CH%@E"@ES3N;17CKQY>.X%?
M['ZN[&V;],J`F,HJ5LOR.6=F+2*P&L;+XUV>M?E$37P=J.K5'&6)(PHI!E**/H
MD3(UI!)A*BS5"A:I%B*URFS3NM::2)*:I:76K4VF^Q&N;=DN59H)E=4FV*>$<
M@K]XD
&Q;)
B->W2\32
12>2
M-;069*I.<42C'+)LY#-=IE*CTR1.2E0F2B5KEB\91))9)(E&0EEA`$(,:1S=
M65SW%Y>#ALC#J<;;161J'2NF-QK&OQH;>X+)Y$^FO-4VA<\SL6:5T8ZK(G"E[
M$Y26/2-$D4")*/+`L;"QA.$4(0
`@Z"DX%BEIPG@C3O586+/BI[R^-MHQ*?+(-
MF1M`$1OR_E%W,#ZM8K!GZUZL:-V2D961JD3&UJZG3;(6IS2-+?@T;:I68`(XG
M/ZV`)^,)VE^WD1W6O7C4Z+J?Y?\`:>NS?-*XD->:HV+'XE,K@EU`7X](UW[=
M$S99S<^@2P]V";6"X^$.)+J\=9?(4+ZY"P@")$6W*`&A.3;%:U*H+KD^+)9^6
M_K98.H6FM1ZZV@XPUXF5='6"%P=H$ZO;Q&7`B6V=,IV@,1JI#&HFZ;@.3HI0`
M@X`T>,8-*%D(Q!SCEM4*#-[5US:)R
I__2]`>M6N\K=X78ZLG:S9MC"5MGO4V#1LKI3!2-0>R;L;`LREY.`NI1
MP-P[2-0@$X+\@&!.)
1(/NQS#QB;8^_-&?0-RQ
MS9F5M0[L
,3;'WYHSZ!N(YL2MJ'=CF'C$VQ]^:,^@;B.;$K:A
MW8YAXQ-L??FC/H&XCFQ;*VH=V.8>,3;'WYHSZ!N(YL2MJ'=CF'C$VQ]^:,^@;
MB.;$K:AW8YAXQ-L??FC/H&XCFQ;*VH=V.8>,3;'WYHSZ!N(YL2MJ'=CF'C$VQ
M]^:,^@;B.;$K:AW8YAXQ-L??FC/H&XCFQ;*VH=V.8>,3;'WYHSZ!N(YL2MJ'=
MCF'C$VQ]^:,^@;B.;$K:BLO]ADB[U/LOO'[!>N_,T^"WMCVG5GM;MOY,WPP^
M&OK;/V3]A^%_8?]@]?U'L_P!B?H=D[7^N
'(UM:PF)7A2XB3Y5F]C)$669)F
M33243Q/ND._&N;,3=+9:9+(9`QJ*8BCO.IF)PBSJ3ZN'QRREE1R20HDOJQ.64
M#+.T!B;/:"$QJY+U%J$"I":4H&E;#2Z4.;WKY@4
1"10Q3#X1;^P"FB6B1R%(ZX;7=F62)4RNCDQ%&)S>UHDA1QX"2EB49IW0%
M;^=AO&WFTDSU1;=JRG+A`DLMUS7*G)'?,O:`N9\UI9GRM9&AGLW;#(E$>3*8&A;
M>)&G;`]E%%E+6Y*`2@O*C`L@*-Q&0M6J5Q/K:MWJ:;3JOC,UF\?/G=JMK&]1M
M#$BPGMJ]JGDU>8+5:A#DUZ<35Y=BR1G,;VTY*8I*-4EC,-RG3]!O$KM&EU;<'
M-(SYH&NJVHXK;<$W3SFN&"9UA*;JCY#_%U:HUPK&+SEBA+@\HE+6)8B
X-Z0P]2D)5#.ZHTI(U')J6)=#F#NDFW-H>(R-JC+W(EA*QPRQ'N"Q.A`L
M:HPS2^WQT)!Y/(UR94:!-&IM;98F=N5D84@R((E)_J$8!J`V432\3B-B>87!
MVI+6KS7[8O7Q-^V9B=!3^:3R.R*&PF-EJY;9\*GZEIF+F4B8'%]KUYK!48M!
M@TU*4C4$'B,]4<`7&I4;"M?@3ZBTA2RR.LLF0I'!$@?FY,ZH$[JF"C<,(5I>#
MT1RE($TX24:E,,!N"QYP8`(\8&$`\"#BD(A:X;#V?M'!?VYU^S0-GJ1YM5_B
M$)CDA+?39R^5]`[)6US,I^\2!([$M$=?5IK"Z+&U;@]DJL!*3D`.7Y$ISDB)S
M4K23CB?HA\P/6U:1,CQ/LI19@DGI>+R%(LA;_AU3'["O:R-U`ORRIDREX)3R
MY[;CB.S'D$N:'J8,6)$Y0RQC2AI=#2ISOO'T5CT97,!BC^O>)Y>E2U':B"<1
MQYB#G5N+?I^>6^P-CJB7F)G!%8:=@BJ,\YK/3"++2K\"&:$P."Q)P15;1MY&
M;M+
,P;85O50)R]8V`=W
'BEA`6AX7YD,<7$5PXC2NK1[19S_6H0A5]=S;@JDH:689;YB&K;*!H=
M793.%I.&I;"4(F]4QKFU>O/L"DL[&1SV;AVP@1JL'4V`3P;CUP1%"#A%G'M`
MPI(8U(:;LCJE?;25/:EAO-;5^HE4H=XXG9EDA>VV&R;(R%,:245_#[0AI[E,Q
M(0Q]/\,X3.$*QL+]?DT_.#BA!`:28#%D--*62+X,C@#@#@#@%3G[X'\6+^1A
MS/'MZ'3Z_P`]3__4]3NJ'S?V;]
>C6MJ]UC+\^-K8
MF)
5O'[3%*N\(O-87/5)]COS
M@
U,8D)3.EE.:5G:FR:O4R!")M5ICU42ER]2H*$G"GP>
M!0(I1@TH!("D)D5S1(=[A#9(W
^*5;HT*8F]PUQAJ\AF61)V:9&:E&]9=$
M*II.7K#EY"(H@P`E79A$!R')6>N/(J0X7"]/*;K>6UK,:^+E\,75A5[52K2W
M,4N="&5]JN-OJV3P^&2Q">)0)Y;H>^N2@]";@PE6(*@XA2
KB),)L:SW6OH?422JXW!Y9.WB51PIK12<^0
ML#T2A5'`:B7B/-2@32E6EDY5G-.24QQHBDB8(24!N9E&7K?6R!U$L?":V
D_P%(FC\M]KOKDT%J&T;^4L+8\/WZ^>SHG1.R"4B'T(\%''
M%F6`VWCB1[:/+?UDAK4\I4JRR$Z>1/U)O3ZXO]F.SXL=GJCK(D-B5<

M,X_UW7`#)`@B3C,*&BLB;:1PDY@Q>7KK*PEPQ$3$URMCKU@L^.0R.JEJ0EJCC
M9=#?-FNT4C.-K;6UU;&F7HK;!<\'-2=24RIQC),3(R#$R<132AJNK4PT>\N:@
MXME&N9;'>TT4E:9954VC\T)FP"95'9#3U2?L*BY[4N(:"DHD*RI_]C.*-20H2
M+"/T\EA._P!)QI0U-G3GS5*+F(=BCX9-;+@DTV2-A*V53R/S=Z;9+'WFO8JP
M0B*/,8>6LY`^)3F^-QI&2J+&L;%EU"2,*DS/:%`QV,1J=.1*G@R.`.`.`.`5.
M?O@?Q8OY&',\>WH=/K_/4__5]3NJ'S?V;]
Z]A]EN7M-+E>V]@6>T$(6X]X$L0]G,[6E"TI4ZQ2Z94$=8&$Q9)IA_
M3U`@%D6`Y`\XL]U?N>%:NWO1355TSD]!--[:TWOK?&6>`2M^E@06Q
H3+4@,Y2OY0C>D10,8Q#AJ*'5-.Y-NL5);6E>^^30U
M[H.<'ALO1.E2`FZ*CJ^:Z+E
/;!(BHW4FB+'!&U7JXYGN;<'D$P(LYAO6'C<5%?%'$,
)CD

M4NCPO;)2JCV5^?6)1EF]9/E2E!IZ6VZ<>)U$%_[_`+C&*%?3&F;[&60J*.U`E
MMHQA+J\XFHG>RI5LBRP'8:-ON5]6+'",*&NH5;"YZ6HD:E&>V%)P*R?4$"QU[
M-U"1;7#%DQM0WZV832-WR>]@77+)G'+SV*<`LC]`W!9+7>(L]CRD-?`KUJ8H
M@UJ9DVR*$IVW+:)N[:AR$0"TV220>J!;9AR9<2HR1$5DE&\FN[OO/%TU=2ZS
MI38U;)=KZ$D,;8)M.X.V6DYL2*)VO3R*4/<$C2!(^I%,?3/,4C"HHP8$8L)/
MUT_)@3)52:]KTUY'P;/[/[84Y!5
//E;I4T.40&FY.;,AN./;8UA_.`
`
M5CW75YL&L22P;,R4;I,[,2FUW5R^'/57I-2Z_E^NS>*3HJ_
JE=%-
MD8B-E7))=>+`2S2LBE+S#FEQ-Q7%@-;"LPRLJ]&J2;+^HVGY"F,$FPKX!Z:
DE21&
$06*!L
MT]OC<*G4GBNQS-.T
I,RXK2S$ZA$,HH
MQ2NG"*%LA2YJ2/M-XE%Y^63L*>9"K%=YC.];+R:(_7KU34UBT_!)G6$R9!#8
M6BK-W9/AFO?(\\*$;:6O[$$+HN2"<4H2TAQ'4N-K(J7JO$C]%J
D5!#32-:H:<5P:72D=
K6\P^.6):,>CL3D,_%#>\,S0]*_5VS-$%
MET9@FJU<2FA[)Q+FB/LZ9SG5J[).:UI6-*-Y(183&KRRD;*3#9D8'N$6PC^<7
M/N2?W=B8FNMETC=JH9R[RB7V3K-)8Q**ZGS
R(RG6&^I'[9(['DU8ET$6UDT=/>7F(E1!,K.CD]?WYEO(IN=,,=6E,@K4
MJ!^96,;8[UB5**3)Q`ET.6SA$)Y:9<02!2J9G%,DDV1`R`+W"+?`_*P=@/,@
M9&78QYCE>SU>\12(;#+XG'4%-9>6]IE42V,BT6US:*T"W0UQ>+4'95*GN3D\
MA[0ZEDE@"L":W?Z-.8FZM`E;2?RA<;!69^8(RB;9--'>P7@"IX6'2I^98_'G
M16E='MQ=&MO4-;$89V%G2EQUJ6D-I.0I0'FDI`&*1&*1FFCT8[#;N"#@#@%3G
M[X'\6+^1AS/'MZ'3Z_SU/__6]3NJ'S?V;]
0
M-4GT6K>S(HZ0BQ6R,RV'O78_;$
Q)%C.Y!;UR5T1!7(S3?4J`)7%&2
#`\9
MP$TL(O=QCDB>`3R9FQ2J)H@!*.D["2$H`08RJ?D.3.@`>KTF&J;%>33!]&/2(
M6
OEC"3T=']?K%X>CB'D)69B#[OI9
M+_K-O5>GZ/=]?/XH3T?_`)'8/$/(2LS[XS;5531T$R0ZS*^ECT%*
$I!AX`C,ZG4#D8<9SC.<<0\A)T'D`X`X`X`X`X`X`
MX`X`X!4Y^^!_%B_D8
AT^O\`/4__U_4[JA\W]F_7)\PG[^NR7.EN",W_
M`"[O(DURF!P!P!P!P!P!P!P!P!P#@C(F(`$T80XP+!QF,?X,B'T]/Z8O1_9G
MW/Z\\V^!EF94E%F$C"/&.KU19Z/[
ST
CIQT]'^'^CC`8$=ITF)!Z[J=`<]
M&
G'IP=C'_N_R?YO)F#NOEJXZ-G%O1CH
M_P#YG+?Z_P#]S&?_`*L_^W^3&+L"VXGH$YS-C@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@%3G[X'
M\6+^1AS/'MZ'3Z_SU/_0]3NJ'S?V;]
=J\&Y;+A$T/SGK=&`1MU-QGIQD.,8
MP%O'T_Y.G_X8TFLT1IO@11F<$LE7D(4M>3D[M18S$F"8D_&B4;%]4(LC)]6W#
M]<'`!!SD0>G'1G'3T^CHU*I[D9AY$4IM4UO'=JQBJ;*ZR=.%4?T022YR00,1
MN0'F]+.9DHH79S.@0O1GJ"]/3C(L&[<4Q#R.M^7I$)C$-HS$\OB
,G-V&6$*S#W!2@@X7$E=%\+%>$3H
5CK8ZNH5)3[OQC
M.IGWQ
N
M%DX@U"(T6`EB];B+A[77D'/!FJ.)Q3FFBB0Z<1".I25DC3O"J0/\9,3E*GLF
M'-#">-JB%_.BY:4%=A2/*SM9?9`%&#
