ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS 
This
section supplements and updates certain of the information found under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the “2008 Form 10-K”) and the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended June 30, 2009 (the “2009 second quarter Form 10-Q”), and should be read in conjunction with the discussion of risk factors set forth in such sections. Based on the information
currently known to us, the Company believes that the matters discussed below, together with the risk factors set forth in the 2008 Form 10-K and the 2009 second quarter Form 10-Q, identify the most significant risk factors affecting the Company.
However, the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces are not limited to those described below and those set forth in the 2008 Form 10-K and the 2009 second quarter Form 10-Q. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or
that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business and the trading price of its securities. 
The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 will significantly impact our business practices and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations. 
The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “CARD Act”),
requires the Company to make fundamental changes to many of our current business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. Among other things, the CARD Act accelerated the effective date and expanded the scope of amendments
adopted in December 2008 by federal bank regulators in the United States to Regulation AA (i.e., “UDAP”), which relate to unfair and deceptive acts or practices, and Regulation Z, which relate to truth in lending, that restrict certain
credit and charge card practices and require expanded disclosures to consumers. In addition, the CARD Act provides consumers with the right to opt out of interest rate increases (with limited exceptions) and other significant changes to account
terms. 
Most of the requirements of the CARD Act will become effective in February 2010, but several provisions became
effective on August 20, 2009. In September 2009, legislation was introduced in House of Representatives to accelerate the effective date of the remaining provisions of the CARD Act to December 1, 2009. It is difficult to evaluate the resulting
impact on our business at this time, as a number of the provisions in the CARD Act require significant interpretation by the Federal Reserve. 
While the Company is making certain changes to its product terms and practices that are designed to mitigate the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, there is no assurance that it will be
successful. The long-term impact of the CARD Act on the Company’s business practices and revenues will depend upon a number of factors, including its ability to successfully implement its business strategies, consumer behavior and the actions
of the Company’s competitors, which are difficult to predict at this time. If the Company is not able to lessen the impact of the changes required by the CARD Act, it will have a material adverse effect on results of operations. 
Proposed legislative and regulatory reforms could, if enacted or adopted, result in our business becoming subject to significant and
extensive additional regulations. 
The extreme disruptions in the capital markets since mid-2007 and the resulting
instability and failure of numerous financial institutions have led to numerous proposals for changes in the financial services industry, including significant additional regulation and the formation of additional potential regulators. To that end,
earlier in 2009 legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency,
which would have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals also call for substantive regulation across the financial services industry,
including more heightened scrutiny and regulation for any financial firm whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could pose a threat to financial stability if it failed and new requirements for the securitization market,
including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization. Other initiatives include the Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance on incentive compensation
policies at banking organizations and legislation introduced in the US Congress that would accelerate implementation of the recently enacted CARD Act and, among other things, implement an interest rate freeze on existing credit card balances (except
under limited circumstances) through February 22, 2010. Legislative and regulatory changes could impact the profitability of the Company’s business activities, require the Company to change certain of its business practices, affect retention of
key Company personnel and expose the Company to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). 
82 
Table of Contents
Potential actions by the FDIC and the rating agencies could impact the Company’s
ABS program. 
The credit rating agencies are assessing the potential impact of the adoption of recently issued
accounting standards for transfers of financial assets and for consolidation of variable interest entities (the “Accounting Standards”) on credit ratings of the securities issued by securitization trusts within the overall asset-backed
securities market. (The Accounting Standards, previously issued as FASB Statements Nos. 166 and 167, are discussed further in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) In particular, the agencies are assessing the FDIC’s safe harbor
rule relating to the FDIC’s treatment of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring financial institution’s receivership or conservatorship. Pursuant to the safe harbor rule, the FDIC will not reclaim any financial asset transferred
in connection with a securitization, provided that such transfer meets all conditions for GAAP sale accounting. Because the adoption of the Accounting Standards may cause some asset transfers to securitization trusts to no longer be deemed asset
sales for accounting purposes within a company’s consolidated group, the rating agencies have indicated that they may ultimately conclude that the safe harbor no longer applies and, in certain cases, that the highest rating an ABS security
could receive would be the sponsoring bank’s unsecured debt rating, rather than relying on their separate evaluation of the securitization trust. Accordingly, the ability of the Company’s securitization programs to receive or maintain AAA
ratings on ABS securities under the same terms and conditions as it has done in the past, or at all, is subject to uncertainty. Any action by the rating agencies as described above could adversely impact the Company’s ability to utilize ABS as
a source of funding for its business. 
83 
Table of Contents
