ITEM 1A.
 / RISK FACTORS  
 INSERTING DOTTED RULE 
In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in
Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of AIG's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2012 and in Part I, Item 1A. Risk
Factors and discussed throughout Part II Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in AIG's Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2 on Form 10-K/A filed on February 27,
2012 and March 30, 2012, respectively, and throughout Exhibit 99.2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of AIG's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on May 4, 2012 (collectively, the 2011 Annual Report). 
 COMMAND=ADD_TXTHEX,"PMS900" 
REGULATION

 INSERTING DOTTED RULE 
Our status as a savings and loan holding company and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will
subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, either or both of which may materially and adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and credit
ratings.
 On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which effects comprehensive changes to the
regulation of financial services in the United States, was signed into law. Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly-created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations
implementing the law, an ongoing process anticipated to continue over the next few years. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or whether
Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, require us to raise additional capital or result in a downgrade of our
credit ratings. 
As
a result of the completion of the September 14, 2012 registered public offering of AIG Common Stock, the Department of the Treasury ceased to own a majority of the outstanding shares of AIG
Common Stock, and, consequently, AIG is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) and subject to its examination, supervision and enforcement authority and reporting
requirements as a savings and loan holding company (SLHC). The FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have proposed revised minimum leverage
and risk-based capital requirements that would apply to all bank holding companies and SLHCs, as well as to insured depository institutions, such as AIG Federal Savings Bank. As a result
of our regulation by the FRB as an SLHC:
We cannot predict how the FRB will exercise general supervisory authority over us. 
The FRB, as a prudential matter, may limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares of AIG Common Stock. 
In
addition, under Dodd-Frank we may separately become subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FRB as a nonbank systemically important financial
institution (SIFI). In October 2012, AIG received a notice that it is under consideration by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) for a proposed determination that it is a SIFI. The
notice stated that AIG will be reviewed in Stage 3 of the SIFI determination process described in the Council's interpretive guidance for nonbank financial company determinations. If we are
designated as a SIFI:
We would become subject to stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital necessary to
absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions. 
185
 ZEQ.=1,SEQ=186,EFW="2211130",CP="AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC",DN="1",CHK=76273,FOLIO='185',FILE='DISK127:[12ZCL4.12ZCL16904]JU16904A.;37',USER='DSCHWAR',CD='30-OCT-2012;22:22' 
We would be subject to stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and limitations relating to
risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements, management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for
rapid and orderly dissolution in the event of severe financial distress. 
We would become subject to a new early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB. 
If
we are designated as a SIFI and determined to be a "grave threat" to U.S. financial stability:
We would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15:1. 
The FRB may: 
limit our ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or become affiliated with another company; 
restrict our ability to offer specified financial products;  
require us to terminate specified activities;  
impose conditions on how we conduct our activities; or  
with approval of the Council, and a determination that the foregoing actions are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S.
financial stability, require us to sell or otherwise transfer assets or off-balance-sheet items to unaffiliated entities. 
The
regulations applicable to SIFIs and to SLHCs, when all have been adopted as final rules, may differ materially from each other. 
See
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Outlook – Regulation for further discussion of this potential
regulation. 
If
we continue to control AIG Federal Savings Bank or another insured depository institution, as of July 21, 2014, we will be required to conform to the "Volcker Rule", which prohibits
"proprietary trading" and the sponsoring or investing in "covered funds." The term "covered funds" includes hedge, private equity or similar funds and, in certain cases, issuers of asset backed
securities if such securities have equity-like characteristics. These prohibitions could substantially impact our investment portfolios as they are currently managed. The Volcker Rule, as
proposed, contains an exemption for proprietary trading by insurance companies for their general account, but the final breadth and scope of this exemption cannot be predicted. Even if AIG no longer
controlled an insured depository institution, Dodd-Frank authorizes the FRB to subject SIFIs to additional capital and quantitative limitations if they engage in activities prohibited by
the Volcker Rule. 
In
addition, Dodd-Frank establishes a new framework for regulation of over the counter (OTC) derivatives under which we may have to collateralize previously uncollateralized swaps. These
additional obligations to post collateral or the costs of assignment, termination or obtaining alternative credit could have a material adverse effect on us. This new framework may also increase the
cost of conducting a hedging program or have other effects materially adverse to us. 
We
cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted, the level and magnitude of supervision we may become subject to, or how Dodd-Frank and such regulations will
affect the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. It is possible that the regulations adopted under Dodd-Frank and our
regulation by the FRB as an SLHC could significantly alter our business practices, require us to raise additional capital, impose burdensome and costly requirements and add additional costs. Some of
the regulations may also affect the perceptions of regulators, rating agencies, customers, counterparties, creditors or investors about our financial strength and could potentially affect our
financing costs or result in a ratings downgrade. 
186
 ZEQ.=2,SEQ=187,EFW="2211130",CP="AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC",DN="1",CHK=642505,FOLIO='186',FILE='DISK127:[12ZCL4.12ZCL16904]JU16904A.;37',USER='DSCHWAR',CD='30-OCT-2012;22:22' 
 COMMAND=ADD_TXTHEX,"PMS910" 
