ITEM 1A.  
RISK
    FACTORS

    An investment in Associated’s common stock is subject to
    risks inherent to our business. The material risks and
    uncertainties that management believes affect us are described
    below. Before making an investment decision, you should
    carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below,
    together with all of the other information included or
    incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and
    uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us.
    Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware
    of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial
    may also impair our business operations. This report is
    qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. See also,
    “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking
    Statements.”


    If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial
    condition and results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our
    common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all
    or part of your investment.

External
    Risks
Our Stock Price can be Volatile
 — Stock
    price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell
    your common stock when you want and at prices you find
    attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in
    response to a variety of factors including, among other things:


    Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of
    operations.


    Recommendations by securities analysts.


    Operating results and stock price performance of other companies
    that investors deem comparable to us.


    9

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in
    the financial services industry.


    Perceptions in the marketplace regarding us
    
and/or
 our
    competitors.


    New technology used or services offered by competitors.


    Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or
    involving us or our competitors.


    Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated
    benefits from acquisitions.


    Changes in government regulations.


    Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or
    military conflicts.


    General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general
    economic and political conditions and events, such as economic
    slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss
    trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless
    of operating results.

Our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Certain Banking
    Laws may have an Anti-Takeover Effect
 —
    Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and federal
    banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could
    make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if
    doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our
    shareholders. The combination of these provisions may prohibit a
    non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in
    turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common
    stock.

An Investment in Our Common Stock is not an Insured
    Deposit
 — Our common stock is not a bank
    deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC,
    any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or
    private entity. An investment in our common stock is inherently
    risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors”
    section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same
    market forces that affect the price of common stock in any
    company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may
    lose some or all of your investment.

Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Economic
    Conditions in the States within which We do
    Business
 — Our success depends on the general
    economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we
    operate. Local economic conditions have a significant impact on
    the demand for our products and services as well as the ability
    of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral
    securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding
    sources. A significant decline in general local economic
    conditions, caused by inflation, recession, unemployment,
    changes in securities markets or other factors could impact
    local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

The Earnings of Financial Services Companies are
    Significantly Affected by General Business and Economic
    Conditions
 — Our operations and profitability
    are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the
    United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term
    and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political
    issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both
    debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and
    finance, and the strength of the United States economy, all of
    which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic
    conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and
    nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values, and a
    decrease in demand for our products and services, among other
    things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition and results of operations.

Our Earnings are Significantly Affected by the Fiscal and
    Monetary Policies of the Federal Government and Its
    Agencies
 — The policies of the Federal Reserve
    impact us significantly. The Federal Reserve regulates the
    supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies
    directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on
    loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and
    can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold.
    Those policies determine to a significant extent our cost of
    funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are
    beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve
    policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing
    the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a
    tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve could
    reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services.
    This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and
    ability to repay its loan, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operation.


    10

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 
We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market
    Area
 — We face substantial competition in all
    areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors,
    many of which are larger and may have more financial resources.
    Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and
    internet banks within the various markets in which we operate.
    We also face competition from many other types of financial
    institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans,
    credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance
    companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial
    services industry could become even more competitive as a result
    of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and
    continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance
    companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding
    company, which can offer virtually any type of financial
    service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance
    (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Also,
    technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible
    for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally
    provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic
    payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory
    constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally,
    due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve
    economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range
    of products and services as well as better pricing for those
    products and services than we can.


    Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of
    factors, including, among other things:


    The ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term
    customer relationships based on top quality service, high
    ethical standards, and safe, sound assets.


    The ability to expand our market position.


    The scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services
    offered to meet customer needs and demands.


    The rate at which we introduce new products and services
    relative to our competitors.


    Customer satisfaction with our level of service.


    Industry and general economic trends.


    Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly
    weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

Consumers may Decide not to Use Banks to Complete Their
    Financial Transactions
 — Technology and other
    changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions
    that historically have involved banks through alternative
    methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that
    would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage
    accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete
    transactions such as paying bills
    
and/or

    transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The
    process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as
    “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee
    income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related
    income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue
    streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.

Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or
    Terrorism, and Other External Events could Significantly Impact
    Our Business
 — Severe weather, natural
    disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external
    events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct
    business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit
    base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding
    loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause
    significant property damage, result in loss of revenue
    
and/or
 cause
    us to incur additional expenses. Although management has
    established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the
    occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

Strategic
    Risks
Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations could be
    Negatively Affected if We Fail to Grow or Fail to Manage Our
    Growth Effectively
 — Our business strategy
    includes significant growth plans. We intend to continue
    pursuing a profitable growth strategy. Our prospects must be
    considered in light of the risks, expenses and


    11

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant
    growth stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will
    be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or
    successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will
    not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to
    manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or
    results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to
    successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if we grow
    more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be
    materially adversely affected.


    Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of
    factors including the continued availability of desirable
    business opportunities, the competitive responses from other
    financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to
    manage our growth. While we believe we have the management
    resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage
    our future growth, there can be no assurance growth
    opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully
    managed.

Acquisitions May Disrupt Our Business and Dilute
    Stockholder Value
 — We regularly evaluate
    merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence
    activities related to possible transactions with other financial
    institutions and financial services companies. As a result,
    negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions
    involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any
    time. We seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally
    similar, have experienced management, and possess either
    significant market presence or have potential for improved
    profitability through financial management, economies of scale,
    or expanded services.


    Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves
    potential adverse impact to our financial results and various
    other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including,
    among other things:


    Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company.


    Payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute
    our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and
    long term.


    Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the
    target company.


    Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company.


    There may be volatility in reported income as goodwill
    impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts.


    Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and
    personnel of the target company.


    Inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost
    savings, increases in geographic or product presence,
    
and/or
 other
    projected benefits.


    Potential disruption to our business.


    Potential diversion of our management’s time and attention.


    The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target
    company.


    Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may
    affect the target company.

We Continually Encounter Technological
    Change
 — The financial services industry is
    continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent
    introductions of new technology-driven products and services.
    The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables
    financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce
    costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to
    address the needs of our customers by using technology to
    provide products and services that will satisfy customer
    demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our
    operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater
    resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be
    able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and
    services or be successful in marketing these products and
    services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace
    with technological change affecting the financial services
    industry could have a material adverse impact on our business
    and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.

New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May
    Subject Us to Additional Risk
 — From time to
    time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new
    products and services within existing lines of business. There
    are


    12

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these
    efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not
    fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of
    business
    
and/or
 new
    products and services, we may invest significant time and
    resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and
    development of new lines of business
    
and/or
 new
    products or services may not be achieved and price and
    profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors,
    such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives,
    and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful
    implementation of a new line of business
    
and/or
 a new
    product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business
    
and/or
 new
    product or service could have a significant impact on the
    effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to
    successfully manage these risks in the development and
    implementation of new lines of business
    
and/or
 new
    products or services could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.

Reputation
    Risks
Negative Publicity could Damage Our
    Reputation
 — Reputation risk, or the risk to
    our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is
    inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could
    adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and
    expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative
    public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct
    in any number of activities, including lending practices,
    corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and
    acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection
    of customer information, and from actions taken by government
    regulators and community organizations in response to that
    conduct. Because we conduct most of our business under the
    “Associated Bank” brand, negative public opinion about
    one business could affect our other businesses.

Unauthorized Disclosure of Sensitive or Confidential
    Client or Customer Information, Whether Through a Breach of Our
    Computer Systems or Otherwise, could Severely Harm Our
    Business
 — As part of our business, we
    collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client
    and customer information on our behalf and on behalf of other
    third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place,
    our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service
    providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of
    vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming
    
and/or
 human
    errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving
    the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of
    confidential customer information, whether by us or by our
    vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the
    risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and
    have a material adverse effect on our business.

Ethics or Conflict of Interest Issues could Damage Our
    Reputation
 — We have established a Code of
    Conduct and related policies and procedures to address the
    ethical conduct of business and to avoid potential conflicts of
    interest. Any system of controls, however well designed and
    operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can
    provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the
    objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention
    of our related controls and procedures or failure to comply with
    the established Code of Conduct could have a material adverse
    effect on our reputation, business, results of operations,
    
and/or

    financial condition.

Credit
    Risks
We are Subject to Lending Concentration
    Risks
 — As of December 31, 2006,
    approximately 64% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial,
    financial, and agricultural, real estate construction,
    commercial real estate loans, and lease financing (collectively,
    “commercial loans”). Commercial loans are generally
    viewed as having more inherent risk of default than residential
    mortgage loans or retail loans. Also, the commercial loan
    balance per borrower is typically larger than that for
    residential mortgage loans and retail loans, inferring higher
    potential losses on an individual loan basis. Because our loan
    portfolio contains a growing number of commercial loans with
    balances over a $25 million internal threshold, the
    deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a
    significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in
    nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from
    these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and
    an increase in loan charge offs, all of which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

Changes in Economic and Political Conditions could
    Adversely Affect Our Earnings, as Our Borrowers’ Ability to
    Repay Loans and the Value of the Collateral Securing Our Loans
    Decline
 — Our success depends, to a certain
    extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and
    national, as well as governmental monetary policies.


    13

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes
    in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our
    control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels
    and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Because we have a
    significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real
    estate values could adversely affect the value of property used
    as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a
    negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely
    repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on
    our earnings. Consequently, any decline in the economy in our
    market area could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.

Our Allowance for Loan Losses may be
    Insufficient
 — All borrowers carry the
    potential to default and our remedies to recover (seizure
    
and/or
 sale
    of collateral, legal actions, guarantees, etc.) may not fully
    satisfy money previously lent. We maintain an allowance for loan
    losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for
    loan losses charged to expense, which represents
    management’s best estimate of probable credit losses that
    have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The
    allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to
    reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan
    portfolio. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects
    management’s continuing evaluation of industry
    concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience;
    current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political, and
    regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the
    current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate
    level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a
    high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant
    estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and
    quantitative information, all of which may undergo material
    changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new
    information regarding existing loans, identification of
    additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and
    outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance
    for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies
    periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may
    require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the
    recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments
    different than those of management. An increase in the allowance
    for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and
    possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

We are Subject to Environmental Liability Risk Associated
    with Lending Activities
 — A significant
    portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property.
    During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and
    take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so,
    there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be
    found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are
    found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for
    personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may
    require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially
    reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability
    to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws
    or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with
    respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to
    environmental liability. Although we have policies and
    procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating
    any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not
    be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The
    remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated
    with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Lack of System Integrity or Credit Quality Related to
    Funds Settlement could Result in a Financial
    Loss
 — We settle funds on behalf of financial
    institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds
    from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a
    daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions
    facilitated by us include debit card, credit card and electronic
    bill payment transactions, supporting consumers, financial
    institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely
    upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the
    verification of activity with counterparties and the
    facilitation of the payment. If the continuity of operations or
    integrity of processing were compromised this could result in a
    financial loss to us due to a failure in payment facilitation.
    In addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial
    institutions or other businesses as part of the funds
    settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could
    result in a financial loss to us.

Financial Services Companies Depend on the Accuracy and
    Completeness of Information about Customers and
    Counterparties
 — In deciding whether to extend
    credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on
    information furnished by or on behalf of customers and
    counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports,
    and other financial information. We may also rely on
    representations of those customers, counterparties, or other
    third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy
    and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or
    misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other
    financial information could cause us to enter into


    14

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Liquidity
    Risks
Liquidity is Essential to Our
    Businesses
 — Our liquidity could be impaired
    by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen
    outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances
    that we may be unable to control, such as a general market
    disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties
    or us. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A
    reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our
    liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing
    costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger
    unfavorable contractual obligations.

We Rely on Dividends from Our Subsidiaries for most of Our
    Revenue
 — Our Parent Company is a separate and
    distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives
    substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its
    subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds
    to pay dividends on our common stock, repurchase our common
    stock, and to pay interest and principal on our Parent
    Company’s debt. Various federal
    
and/or
 state
    laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that
    Associated Bank, National Association, and certain nonbank
    subsidiaries may pay to the Parent Company. Also, the Parent
    Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets
    upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is
    subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.
    In the event Associated Bank, National Association, is unable to
    pay dividends to the Parent Company, the Parent Company may not
    be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on
    our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from
    Associated Bank, National Association, could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations.

Interest
    Rate Risks
We are Subject to Interest Rate Risk
 —
    Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net
    interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many
    factors that are beyond our control, including general economic
    conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory
    agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in
    monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could
    influence not only the interest we receive on loans and
    investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and
    borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our
    ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the
    fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and
    (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed
    securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the
    interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at
    a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and
    other investments, our net interest income, and therefore
    earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be
    adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and
    other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid
    on deposits and other borrowings.


    Although management believes it has implemented effective asset
    and liability management strategies, including the limited use
    of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential
    effects of changes in interest rates on our results of
    operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in
    market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our
    interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely
    may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest
    rate changes on our balance sheet.

The Impact of Interest Rates on Our Mortgage Banking
    Business can be Large and Complex
 — Changes in
    interest rates can impact our mortgage related revenues. A
    decline in mortgage rates generally increases the demand for
    mortgage loans as borrowers refinance, but also generally leads
    to accelerated payoffs. Conversely, in a constant or increasing
    rate environment, we would expect fewer loans to be refinanced
    and a decline in payoffs. Although we use models to assess the
    impact of interest rates on mortgage related revenues, the
    estimates of revenues produced by these models are dependent on
    estimates and assumptions of future loan demand, prepayment
    speeds and other factors which may differ from actual subsequent
    experience.

Changes in Interest Rates could also Reduce the Value of
    Our Mortgage Servicing Rights and Earnings
 —
    We have a portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage
    servicing right (MSR) is the right to service a mortgage loan
    (i.e, collect principal, interest, escrow amounts, etc.) for a
    fee. We acquire MSRs when we originate mortgage


    15

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    loans and keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize
    the loans or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage
    loans originated by other lenders. We carry MSRs at the lower of
    amortized cost or estimated fair value. Fair value is the
    present value of estimated future net servicing income,
    calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions
    about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.


    Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and
    thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more
    likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a
    lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair
    value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate our
    MSRs for impairment based on the difference between carrying
    amount and fair value at quarter end. If temporary impairment
    exists, we establish a valuation allowance through a charge to
    earnings for the amount the carrying amount exceeds fair value.
    We also evaluate our MSRs for
    
other-than-temporary

    impairment. If we determine that
    
other-than-temporary

    impairment exists, we will recognize a direct write-down of the
    carrying value of the MSRs.

Legal/Compliance
    Risks
We are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and
    Supervision
 — We, primarily through Associated
    Bank, National Association, and certain nonbank subsidiaries,
    are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and
    supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to
    protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds,
    and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These
    regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure,
    investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other
    things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually
    review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible
    changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory
    policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation
    of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in
    substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject
    us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services
    and products we may offer,
    
and/or

    increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial
    services and products, among other things. Failure to comply
    with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by
    regulatory agencies, civil money penalties,
    
and/or

    reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
    While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any
    such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations
    will not occur.

We are Subject to Examinations and Challenges by Tax
    Authorities
 — We are subject to federal and
    state income tax regulations. Income tax regulations are often
    complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax
    regulations could negatively impact our results of operations.
    In the normal course of business, we are routinely subject to
    examinations and challenges from federal and state tax
    authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with
    investments we have made and the businesses in which we have
    engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have
    become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions
    taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate
    to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts,
    payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base,
    apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by
    tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or
    amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of
    income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made
    and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

We are Subject to Claims and Litigation Pertaining to
    Fiduciary Responsibility
 — From time to time,
    customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the
    performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer
    claims and legal action related to the performance of our
    fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such
    claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable
    to us, they may result in significant financial liability
    
and/or

    adversely affect the market perception of us and our products
    and services, as well as impact customer demand for those
    products and services. Any financial liability or reputation
    damage could have a material adverse effect our business, which,
    in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition and results of operations.

We may be a Defendant in a Variety of Litigation and Other
    Actions, Which may have a Material Adverse Effect on our
    Financial Condition and Results of Operation
 —
    We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation
    arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all
    claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted
    against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm
    our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in
    any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a
    material adverse effect


    16

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    on our financial condition and results of operation. In
    addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or
    levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain
    adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all.

Operational
    Risks
Changes in Our Accounting Policies or in Accounting
    Standards could Materially affect how We Report Our Financial
    Results and Condition
 — Our accounting
    policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results
    and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates
    and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or
    liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting
    policies are critical because they require management to make
    difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that
    are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that
    materially different amounts would be reported under different
    conditions or using different assumptions.


    From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting
    standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern
    the preparation of our external financial statements. These
    changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could
    materially impact how we report our results of operations and
    financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or
    revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior
    period financial statements in material amounts.

Our Internal Controls may be
    Ineffective
 — Management regularly reviews and
    updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and
    procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures.
    Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is
    based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only
    reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the
    system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and
    procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to
    controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Impairment of Goodwill or Other Intangible Assets could
    Require Charges to Earnings, which could Result in a Negative
    Impact on Our Results of Operations
 — Under
    current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other
    intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer
    amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically
    or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of
    goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in
    circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to
    be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances,
    the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a
    charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is
    identified.

We may not be able to Attract and Retain Skilled
    People
 — Our success depends, in large part,
    on our ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition
    for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be
    intense and we may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled
    people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one
    or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse
    impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our
    markets, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of
    promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. We do not
    currently have employment agreements with any of our executive
    officers.

Loss of Key Employees may Disrupt Relationships with
    Certain Customers
 — Our business is primarily
    relationship-driven in that many of our key employees have
    extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with
    such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if
    the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor.
    While we believe our relationship with our key producers is good
    we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain
    with our organization. Loss of such key personnel, should they
    enter into an employment relationship with one of our
    competitors, could result in the loss of some of our customers.

Because the Nature of the Financial Services Business
    Involves a High Volume of Transactions, We Face Significant
    Operational Risks
 — We operate in many
    different businesses in diverse markets and rely on the ability
    of our employees and systems to process a high number of
    transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting
    from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of
    fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution
    of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to
    transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal
    control system and compliance requirements and business
    continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also
    includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a
    result of an operational


    17

 END LOGICAL PAGE 
 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
 BEGIN LOGICAL PAGE 

    deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable
    regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their
    implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative
    publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control
    system, improper operation of systems or improper employee
    actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action
    and suffer damage to our reputation.

We Rely on Other Companies to Provide Key Components of
    Our Business Infrastructure
 — Third party
    vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure
    such as internet connections, network access and core
    application processing. While we have selected these third party
    vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems
    caused by these third parties, including as a result of their
    not providing us their services for any reason or their
    performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our
    ability to deliver products and services to our customers and
    otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party
    vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.

Revenues from Our Investment Management and Asset
    Servicing Businesses are Significant to Our
    Earnings
 — Generating returns that satisfy
    clients in a variety of asset classes is important to
    maintaining existing business and attracting new business.
    Administering or managing assets in accordance with the terms of
    governing documents and applicable laws is also important to
    client satisfaction, and failure to do so can generate liability.

Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or
    Breach in Security
 — We rely heavily on
    communications and information systems to conduct our business.
    Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these
    systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer
    relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and
    other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to
    prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or
    security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you
    that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will
    not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately
    addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or
    security breaches of our information systems could damage our
    reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to
    additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation
    and possible financial liability, any of which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

The Potential for Business Interruption Exists Throughout
    Our Organization -
 Integral to our performance is the
    continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational
    infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast
    array of associates and key executives in our
    
day-to-day

    and ongoing operations. Failure by any or all of these resources
    subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope.
    This includes but is not limited to operational or technical
    failures, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in
    third party support as expected, as well as, the loss of key
    individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to perform
    properly.

ITEM 1B.  
UNRESOLVED
    STAFF COMMENTS

    None.

