ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS

An investment in the Corporation’s common stock is subject
to risks inherent to the Corporation’s business. The
material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect
the Corporation are described below. Before making an investment
decision, you should carefully consider the risks and
uncertainties described below, together with all of the other
information included or incorporated by reference in this
report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the
only ones facing the Corporation. Additional risks and
uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or
that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the
Corporation’s business operations. This report is qualified
in its entirety by these risk factors. See also, “Special
Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”


If any of the following risks actually occur, the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations
could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to
happen, the value of the Corporation’s common stock could
decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your
investment.


References to “we,” “us,” and
“our” in this section refer to the Corporation and its
subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified or unless the context
otherwise requires.

Risks Related To The Corporation’s Business
We Are Subject To Interest Rate Risk

The Corporation’s earnings and cash flows are largely
dependent upon its net interest income. Interest rates are
highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the
Corporation’s control, including general economic
conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory
agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in
monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could
influence not only the interest the Corporation receives on
loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on
deposits and borrowings,

7

 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents

but such changes could also affect (i) the
Corporation’s ability to originate loans and obtain
deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Corporation’s
financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average
duration of the Corporation’s mortgage-backed securities
portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest
rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster
rate than the interest rates received on loans and other
investments, the Corporation’s net interest income, and
therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could
also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on
loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest
rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.


Although management believes it has implemented effective asset
and liability management strategies, including the limited use
of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential
effects of changes in interest rates on the Corporation’s
results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged
change in market interest rates could have a material adverse
effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results
of operations. Also, the Corporation’s interest rate risk
modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict
or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on the
Corporation’s balance sheet. See Part II sections
“Net Interest Income” and “Interest Rate
Risk” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further
discussion related to the Corporation’s management of
interest rate risk.

We Are Subject To Lending Risk

As of December 31, 2005, approximately 61% of the
Corporation’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial,
financial, and agricultural, real estate construction, and
commercial real estate loans (collectively, “commercial
loans”). Commercial loans are generally viewed as having
more inherent risk of default than residential mortgage loans or
retail loans. Also, the commercial loan balance per borrower is
typically larger than that for residential mortgage loans and
retail loans, inferring higher potential losses on an individual
loan basis. Because the Corporation’s loan portfolio
contains a growing number of commercial loans with balances over
a $25 million internal threshold, the deterioration of one
or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in
nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could
result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase
in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge
offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of
operations. See Part II section “Loans” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” for further
discussion of credit risks related to different loan types.

Our Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient

The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is
a reserve established through a provision for loan losses
charged to expense, which represents management’s best
estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the
existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of
management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses
and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the
allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of
industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss
experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic,
political, and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses
inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the
appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently
involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the
Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit
risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information,
all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic
conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding
existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and
other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s
control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan
losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically
review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and may
require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the
recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments
different than those of management. An increase in the allowance
for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and
possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of
operations. See Part II section “Allowance for Loan
Losses” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for
further discussion related to the Corporation’s process for
determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan
losses.

8


 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
Our Profitability Depends Significantly On Economic
Conditions In The States Within Which We Do Business

The Corporation’s success depends on the general economic
conditions of the specific local markets in which the
Corporation operates. Local economic conditions have a
significant impact on the demand for the Corporation’s
products and services as well as the ability of the
Corporation’s customers to repay loans, the value of the
collateral securing loans, and the stability of the
Corporation’s deposit funding sources. A significant
decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation,
recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities, or other
international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in
securities markets or other factors could impact local economic
conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.

We Are Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and
Supervision

The Corporation, primarily through Associated Bank, National
Association, and certain nonbank subsidiaries, is subject to
extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking
regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’
funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system
as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the
Corporation’s lending practices, capital structure,
investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other
things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually
review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible
changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory
policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation
of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect the
Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes
could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the
types of financial services and products the Corporation may
offer, and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer
competing financial services and products, among other things.
Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could
result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money
penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial
condition, and results of operations. While the Corporation has
policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations,
there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.
See the section “Supervision and Regulation” and
Note 17, “Regulatory Matters,” of the notes to
consolidated financial statements within Part II,
Item 8.

Our Internal Controls May Be Ineffective

Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s
internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and
corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of
controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part
on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met.
Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls
and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to
controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on
the Corporation’s business, results of operations, and
financial condition.

New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May
Subject Us to Additional Risks

From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or
offer new products and services within existing lines of
business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties
associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where
the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing
new lines of business and/or new products and services, the
Corporation may invest significant time and resources. Initial
timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of
business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and
price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External
factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive
alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact
the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new
product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or
new product or service could have a significant impact on the
effectiveness of the Corporation’s system of internal
controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the
development and implementation of new lines of business or new
products or services could have a material adverse effect on the
Corporation’s business, results of operations and financial
condition.

9

 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
We Rely On Dividends From Our Subsidiaries For Most Of Our
Revenue

The Parent Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from
its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue
from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the
principal source of funds to pay dividends on the
Corporation’s common stock and interest and principal on
the Corporation’s debt. Various federal and/or state laws
and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Associated
Bank, National Association, and certain nonbank subsidiaries may
pay to the Corporation. Also, the Corporation’s right to
participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s
liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of
the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Associated Bank,
National Association, is unable to pay dividends to the
Corporation, the Corporation may not be able to service debt,
pay obligations, or pay dividends on the Corporation’s
common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Associated
Bank, National Association, could have a material adverse effect
on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, and
results of operations. See the section “Supervision and
Regulation” and Note 17, “Regulatory
Matters,” of the notes to consolidated financial statements
within Part II, Item 8.

Acquisitions May Disrupt Our Business and Dilute
Stockholder Value

The Corporation regularly evaluates merger and acquisition
opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to
possible transactions with other financial institutions and
financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take
place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt,
or equity securities may occur at any time. The Corporation
seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally
similar, have experienced management, and possess either
significant market presence or have potential for improved
profitability through financial management, economies of scale,
or expanded services.


Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves
potential adverse impact to the Corporation’s financial
results and various other risks commonly associated with
acquisitions, including, among other things:


    Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company.

    Payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute
    the Corporation’s tangible book value and earnings per
    share in the short and long term.

    Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the
    target company.

    Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company.

    There may be volatility in reported income as goodwill
    impairment losses could occur irregularly and in varying amounts

    Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and
    personnel of the target company.

    Inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost
    savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or
    other projected benefits

    Potential disruption to the Corporation’s business.

    Potential diversion of the Corporation’s management’s
    time and attention.

    The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target
    company.

    Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may
    affect the target company.

Details of the Corporation’s recent acquisition activity is
presented in Note 2, “Business Combinations,” of
the notes to consolidated financial statements within
Part II, Item 8.

We May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled
People

The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its
ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for
the best people in most activities engaged in by the Corporation
can be intense and the Corporation may not be able to hire
sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. The unexpected
loss of services of one or more of the Corporation’s key
personnel could have a material adverse impact on the
Corporation’s business

10


 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents

because of their skills, knowledge of the Corporation’s
market, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of
promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The
Corporation does not currently have employment agreements with
any of its senior officers.

Our Information Systems May Experience An Interruption Or
Breach In Security

The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information
systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or
breach in security of these systems could result in failures or
disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship
management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems.
While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to
prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or
security breach of its information systems, we cannot assure you
that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will
not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately
addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or
security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems
could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss
of customer business, subject the Corporation to additional
regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil
litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could
have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s
financial condition and results of operations.

We Continually Encounter Technological Change

The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid
technological change with frequent introductions of new
technology-driven products and services. The effective use of
technology increases efficiency and enables financial
institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The
Corporation’s future success depends, in part, upon its
ability to address the needs of its customers by using
technology to provide products and services that will satisfy
customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies
in the Corporation’s operations. Many of the
Corporation’s competitors have substantially greater
resources to invest in technological improvements. The
Corporation may not be able to effectively implement new
technology-driven products and services or be successful in
marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure
to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting
the financial services industry could have a material adverse
impact on the Corporation’s business and, in turn, the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.

We Are Subject To Claims and Litigation Pertaining To
Fiduciary Responsibility

From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action
pertaining to the Corporation’s performance of its
fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal
action related to the Corporation’s performance of its
fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such
claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable
to the Corporation, they may result in significant financial
liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the
Corporation and its products and services, as well as impact
customer demand for those products and services. Any financial
liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse
effect on the Corporation’s business, which, in turn, could
have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s
financial condition and results of operations.

Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or
Terrorism, and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact
Our Business

Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and
other adverse external events could have a significant impact on
the Corporation’s ability to conduct business. Such events
could affect the stability of the Corporation’s deposit
base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding
loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause
significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or
cause the Corporation to incur additional expenses. For example,
during 2005, numerous hurricanes made landfall and subsequently
caused extensive flooding and destruction in various parts of
the country. While the impact of these hurricanes did not
significantly affect the Corporation, other severe weather or
natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other adverse
external events may occur in the future. Although management has
established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the
occurrence of any such event could have a material

11


 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents

adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, which, in
turn, could have a material adverse effect on the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.

We Are Subject To Environmental Liability Risk Associated
With Lending Activities

A significant portion of the Corporation’s loan portfolio
is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of
business, the Corporation may foreclose on and take title to
properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk
that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these
properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the
Corporation may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for
personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may
require the Corporation to incur substantial expenses and may
materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit
the Corporation’s ability to use or sell the affected
property. In addition, future laws or more stringent
interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing
laws may increase the Corporation’s exposure to
environmental liability. Although the Corporation has policies
and procedures to perform an environmental review before
initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these
reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential
environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other
financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard
could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s
financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Associated With The Corporation’s Common Stock
Our Stock Price Can Be Volatile

Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to
resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find
attractive. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate
significantly in response to a variety of factors including,
among other things:


    Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of
    operations.

    Recommendations by securities analysts.

    Operating and stock price performance of other companies that
    investors deem comparable to the Corporation.

    News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in
    the financial services industry.

    Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Corporation and/or
    its competitors.

    New technology used or services offered by competitors.

    Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or
    involving the Corporation or its competitors.

    Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated
    benefits from acquisitions.

    Changes in government regulations.

    Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or
    military conflicts.

General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general
economic and political conditions and events, such as economic
slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss
trends, could also cause the Corporation’s stock price to
decrease regardless of operating results.

An Investment In Our Common Stock Is Not An Insured
Deposit

The Corporation’s common stock is not a bank deposit and,
therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other
deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private
entity. Investment in the Corporation’s common stock is
inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk
Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is
subject to the same market forces that affect the price of
common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the
Corporation’s common stock, you may lose some or all of
your investment.

12


 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents
Our Articles Of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Certain
Banking Laws May Have An Anti-Takeover Effect

Provisions of the Corporation’s articles of incorporation,
bylaws, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval
requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire the Corporation, even if doing so would be perceived to
be beneficial to the Corporation’s shareholders. The
combination of these provisions may prohibit a non-negotiated
merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could
adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s
common stock.

Risks Associated With The Corporation’s Industry
We Operate In A Highly Competitive Industry and Market
Area

The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of
its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of
which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such
competitors primarily include national, regional, and internet
banks within the various markets the Corporation operates. The
Corporation also faces competition from many other types of
financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings
and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms,
insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The
financial services industry could become even more competitive
as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological
changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms,
and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a
financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of
financial service, including banking, securities underwriting,
insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking.
Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it
possible for nonbanks to offer products and services
traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and
automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation’s
competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower
cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many
competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a
result, may offer a broader range of products and services as
well as better pricing for those products and services than the
Corporation can.


The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully depends
on a number of factors, including, among other things:


    The ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term
    customer relationships based on top quality service, high
    ethical standards, and safe, sound assets.

    The ability to expand the Corporation’s market position.

    The scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services
    offered to meet customer needs and demands.

    The rate at which the Corporation introduces new products and
    services relative to its competitors.

    Customer satisfaction with the Corporation’s level of
    service.

    Industry and general economic trends.

Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly
weaken the Corporation’s competitive position, which could
adversely affect the Corporation’s growth and
profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse
effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results
of operations.

The Earnings Of Financial Services Companies Are
Significantly Affected By General Business And Economic
Conditions

The Corporation’s operations and profitability are impacted
by general business and economic conditions in the United States
and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term
interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues,
legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt
and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and
finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local
economies in which the Corporation operates, all of which are
beyond the Corporation’s control. A deterioration in
economic conditions could result in an increase in loan
delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan
collateral values, and a decrease in demand for the
Corporation’s products and services, among other

13

 PAGEBREAK 
Table of Contents

things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the
Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations.

Financial Services Companies Depend On The Accuracy And
Completeness Of Information About Customers And
Counterparties

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
transactions, the Corporation may rely on information furnished
by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including
financial statements, credit reports, and other financial
information. The Corporation may also rely on representations of
those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as
independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of
that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial
statements, credit reports, or other financial information could
cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which would
have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s
financial condition and results of operations.

Consumers May Decide Not To Use Banks To Complete Their
Financial Transactions

Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete
financial transactions that historically have involved banks
through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now
maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank
deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can
also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or
transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The
process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as
“disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee
income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related
income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue
streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds
could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s
financial condition and results of operations.

 link1 "ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS" 
ITEM 1B.     UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS

None.

 link1 "ITEM 2. PROPERTIES" 
