ITEM 1A. Risk Factors
You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk
Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the updated risk
factors below as well as the other information in our subsequent filings with the SEC, including
this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.

Regulatory oversight has increased 
–
On November 5, 2009, Associated Bank, National Association (the “Bank”) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding
(“MOU”) with the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), its primary banking regulator. The MOU, which is an informal
agreement between the Bank and the OCC, requires the Bank to develop, implement, and maintain various processes to
improve the Bank’s risk management of its loan portfolio and a three year capital plan providing for maintenance of
specified capital levels discussed below, notification to the OCC of dividends proposed to be paid to the Corporation,
and the commitment of the Corporation to act as a primary or contingent source of the Bank’s capital.
Management believes that it has satisfied a number of the conditions of the MOU and has commenced the steps necessary
to resolve any and all remaining matters presented therein. The Bank  has also agreed with the OCC that beginning March 31, 2010,
until the MOU is no longer in effect, to maintain minimum capital ratios at specified levels higher than those otherwise
required by applicable regulations as follows: Tier 1 capital to total average assets (leverage ratio)—8% and total capital
to risk-weighted assets—12%. At September 30, 2009, the Bank’s capital ratios were 8.33% and 13.11%, respectively.  As a result
of the MOU, the Bank’s lending activities and capital levels are now subject to increased regulatory oversight. The terms of the
MOU may affect our liquidity. In connection with the MOU, we committed to serve as a primary or contingent source of capital to
the Bank to support the maintenance of the specified higher minimum capital ratios. The dollar amount of this commitment is
uncertain at this time.
